

			********** Consulta 1:  the crystalline lens in vertebrates **********

			********** Consulta 2:  the relationship of blood and **********

			********** Consulta 3:  electron microscopy of lung or **********

Documento 344: 

3176. studies of trace metal metabolism electron paramagnetic resonance ofmanganese in ribonucleic acidsthe electron paramagnetic resonance spectrum pattern of manganese wasreadily detected in all of the samples of rna. the resonance patternsindicate that manganese is present in rna in a divalent state and suggestthat manganese is located at the center of a distorted octahedron of oxygenatoms. from the intensity of nominally forbidden resonances, the crystalfield splitting parameter d was estimated to be 0.02 cm -1.

Documento 59: 

the course of influenza virus infection in mice.. organ tissues of infected mice tested by electron microscope . using the electron microscope the presence of inclusions could be shown in the lungs and liver of mice infected with the pr 8 strain . theinclusions contained particles of size and shape closely resembling the most frequently seen forms of influenza virus . the presence of inclusions in liver tissue might perhaps speak for the possibility of virus multiplication in this organ .

Documento 62: 

pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.. case studies with electron microscopy .this paper deals with the clinicopathologic findings in 2 patients with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . the first example was in a 51/2-month-old white female infant without an underlying disease . the second occurred, in association with cytomegalic inclusion disease of the lungs, in a 46-year-old white woman who had received steroid therapy, cytotoxic agents, and irradiation to the thorax for hodgkin's disease . an electron microscope was used for the study of the morphology of the organisms in tissue removed at autopsy .

Documento 277: 

1162. electron microscopy of the bovine lungs the blood-air barrier in acutepulmonary emphysemaelectron microscopic studies of experimentallyinduced acute pulmonary emphy-sema in 2 cows yielded the following findingsalveolar epithelial edema and cyto-lysis, endothelial 'thinning' and cytolysis,excessive elastic and collagenous alveo-lar wall fibrosis, hyperplasia of alveolarwall smooth muscle, numerous intra-alveolar lattice and lamellar bodies, hyalinemembrane formation, hypertrophiedendothelial perikaryons, numerous alveolarmacrophages, and alveolar epithelialsecretion of an electron-dense amorphous mass.it was postulated that the latticeand lamellar bodies were a result of degeneratingalveolar epithelial cells.

Documento 11: 

electron-microscopic observatations on transference of fat through the human placenta . from the results of our previous and present studied on the transportation of fat through the human placenta by means of electron microscopy, we obtained the following conclusions . 1) neutral fat can permeate through the human placenta without dissociation . 2) almost all processes of fat permeation seem to be due to the biological activity . pinocytosis is most representative, but the authors newly found several facts such as dissolution-like change in thebasement membrane and transport via the stroma cell . the authors believe that these results will bring a clue to explain the mechanism ofbiological transportation of materials through the placenta .

Documento 172: 

an electron microscopic study of wolffian lens regeneration in the adultnewt . changes in the morphology of cells during the regenerative tissue transformation of the pigmented epithelium of the iris into lens in the adult newt triturus viridescens were studied in ultrathin sections usingthe electron microscope . in addition, quantitative analyses with electron micrographs were performed . the cells of the normal iris are characterized by an abundance of melanin granules, an extensive smooth--surfaced endoplasmic reticulum, and irregular indentations of the nuclear membrane . after lens removal, the first visible changes are detected in nuclei of the mediodorsal iris cells and involve an increasein the number of primary nucleoli . later, the nuclei enlarge and becomespherical, and prominent nucleoli appear . these nucleoli can be distinguished from the normal nucleoli by the presence of the granular cortex surrounding the fibrous core . the pigment granules seem to be completely extruded into the intercellular spaces and subsequently takenup by leucocytes . the endoplasmic reticulum disintegrates gradually andfinally almost disappears . there is a significant increase of ribosomesin the cytoplasm . later, the cytoplasmic matrix also acquires fibrous elements (about 50 a wide) of low density, probably corresponding in nature to the main components of a normal lens cell . these and other changes in the transforming cells are discussed .

Documento 276: 

1161. electron microscopy of the bovine lungs lattice and lamellar structuresin the alveolar lumenin an electron microscopic study of samplesfrom the lungs of 20 normal cattle,and from 4 with high mountain disease, latticeand lamellar structures were obser-ved free in the alveolar lumens in 25% of thenormal cattle and in 100% of those withhigh mountain disease. in one specimen, alattice and lamellar structure was ob-served in a vacuole within an alveolar epithelialcell. all others were extracellular.the shape and dimensions of these lattice andlamellar structures were similar tothose described by other workers in experimentsinvolving intratracheal injectionsof silicon and oleic and linoleic acid. this is thefirst report of the structures freein the alveolar lumens of apparently normal cattle.

Documento 906: 

fine structure of staphylococccal l-forms.l forms of staph. aureus and bacterial cells wereprocessed by the same technique for electron microscopy.ultrathin sections allowed comparison of structural unitsand indicated that staphylococcal l form units of allsizes lack the rigid cell wall and the compact, fibrillarnuclear area of bacterial cells. the l form units arebound by a typical 'trilamellar' membrane comparableto that described for mycoplasma species. nuclearareas in staphylococcal l forms present a diffuse appearanceand could not be correlated with size of anyparticular structural unit. many small units were seenwithin large bodies and possibly are involved in the reproductiveprocess. no evidence of division by formationof septa or by pinching off of cytoplasmic fragmentswas obtained from the electron micrographs.

Documento 160: 

electron microscopy of the bovine lung.. the normal blood-air barrier . lungs of 20 healthy, mature cattle were fixed in oso , embedded in a polyester resin, and studied via electron microscopy . the blood-air barrier was widely variable in thickness and consistency . there was a continuous epithelial alveolar lining . the cytoplasm of some of the epithelial cells contained membrane-bound aggregates of granules which may be secretory structures . the epithelium rested on a basement membrane, which in turn was continuous with or rested on an adjacent capillary endothelial basement membrane, or continued into merging connective tissue . the capillary endothelium was not fenestrated,. it was a continuous cellular membrane . both the epithelium and endotheliumcontained numerous caveolae and pinocytotic vesicles . cells of the alveolar wall included fibroblasts, lymphocytes, macrophages, and an occasional mast cell . very little elastin was observed .

Documento 234: 

cortisone and atypical pulmonary /epithelial/ hyperplasia further studies including electron microscopy, tissue culture, animal transplantation and long term observations . previous work in rabbits showed that there was a proliferation of cells within pulmonary alveoli following intratracheal injection of nitric acid and that the proliferation was greatly enhanced by the administration of cortisone to the animals . electron microscopic observations indicated that these were morphologically large alveolar lining cells . tissue culture studies of damaged and normal lung with and without cortisone showed no evidence for a direct effect of the drug on the proliferation of these cells . this observation, together with the knowledge that fibrosis was delayed in the cortisone treated animals, support the thesis that the cortisone effect is an indirect one . transplantation of damaged lung tissue to hamster cheek pouch failed to reveal evidence of growth . within the period of observation (99 to 420 days) there was evidence that the proliferation subsided considerably and no neoplasms developed

Documento 286: 

632. pulmonary alveolar proteinosis. a study using enzyme histochemistry,electron microscopy, and surface tension measurementlung biopsies from 4 patients with pulmonary al-veolar proteinosis were studied using histochemical me-thods, electron microscopy, and surface tension mea-surement. the lipid-rich intraalveolar fluid containedmaterial with the staining reactions and ultrastructureof phospholipid. although many alveoli were lined byenzymatically active, secreting granular pneumonocy-tes, extracts of proteinotic tissue were not surfaceactive, and, in fact, inhibited normal surfactant. someof the cells free in the intraalveolar material were de-generating sloughed granular pneumonocytes. at themargins of the lesions were lipid-filled macrophageswhich appear to play a role in the removal of the mate-rial. these observations indicate that alveolar protein-osis is not a primary overproduction of surfactant andare consistent with the concept that the alveolar clear-ing process is defective in this disease.

Documento 70: 

a light and electron microscope study of developing respiratory tissue in the rat . 1. light microscopic observations on the development of the rat lung have shown the presence of glandular, canalicular and alveolar stages . 2. these same three stages can be identified by electron microscopy and all may be present in different parts of the lung at one time, e.g. at 40 and 45 mm. c.r. length . 3. in the glandular stage, the lung tissue itself has an immature appearance by light microscopy and by electron microscopy individual cells also are immature in respect of organelles . glycogen is present in immature cells . 4. during the canalicular stage, lung tissue becomes more vascular . 5. throughout all stages of development, the 'duct' or 'air' spaces are always lined by a continuous and complete epithelium, and blood vessels by a complete endothelium . 6. lamellated inclusion bodies are present in epithelial (endodermal) cells at an early stage of development . 7. micropinocytotic vesicles are present in large numbers in both epithelial and endothelial cytoplasm and it is suggested that in the foetus they may indicate absorption of amniotic fluid from alveolar spaces . 8. the mechanism of alveolar distension is discussed and its nature remains uncertain . 9. respiratory tissue of the rat is not fully differentiated at birth and the importance of this fact in human infants is discussed . 10. the adult blood-air barrier, consisting of epithelium, zona diffusa and endothelium, varies in thickness . this project was performed whilst both of us were in receipt of grantsfrom the medical research council of canada, for which gratitude is expressed . our gratitude is also expressed to miss sylvia smith for typing the manuscript .

Documento 394: 

information.2724. primary epidermoid cancers of the lung. electron micro-scopic studyan electron microscopic study was madeof 8 squamous cell, 3 undifferentiated,and 3 alveolar carcinomas of the lung onbiopsy specimens embedded in methacryl-ate. the squamous cell carcinomas werefound to contain cylindrical cells withglycogen granules, scanty mitochondria,a reticular endoplasm which was chieflyvesicular, numerous free ribosomes,and bundles of confluent fibrils in the desmo-somes. the authors also observed inthe center of the tumor nodes, cells richerin tonofibrils which enveloped thenucleus, and cells in which all the cytoplasmicorganelles had almost disappearedexcept for tonofibrils or cells packed withkeratohyalin and even lipid granulessometimes arranged in lamellar formationsof the myelin type. the picture as awhole was that so often seen in the opticmicroscope tumor foci formed ofslightly differentiated cells at the peripherywhich became more differentiatedas one approaches the center. the undifferenti-ated cells resembled more theintermediate bronchial cells than the basal cells.the paper does not describe theundifferentiated and alveolar carcinomas.

Documento 69: 

acute experimental pneumococcal (type i) pneumonia in the mouse.. the migration of leucocytes from the pulmonary capillaries into the alveolarspaces as revealed by the electron microscope . in this preliminary study of experimental pneumococcal pulmonary pneumonia in the mouse the leucocytes were observed to pass from the capillaries into the interstitial tissue and eventually into the alveolar spaces through the intercellular junctions of the endothelial and epithelial cell membranes .

Documento 78: 

electron microscopy of cytoplasmic inclusions within /macrophages/ of human tissue . the fine structure of inclusions found within the cytoplasm of macrophages of human lung, spleen, skin, lymph node, and rectum has beendescribed . the inclusions appear as concentric or whorled lamellae arranged around a core . each lamella is constructed of discrete, parallel filaments . the inclusions do not resemble currently described viruses or virus-like particles, nor do they resemble asbestos bodies or other known atmospheric pollutants or ingestants . there is some resemblance to lipid phase systems as well as mast cell granules,. possibly the inclusions represent partial intracellular digestion of phagocytized tissue membranes or ingested mast cell granules, respectively . differences and similarities exist between the inclusion bodies of macrophages and the granules of mast cells . such variations could be due to alterations in mast cell granule morphology before or after macrophage ingestion . cytologic distinctions between macrophages laden with mast cell granules and mast cells proper, remains obscure and requires additional experimental evidence for clear electron microscopic differentiation of these two cell types . the exact nature of these highly structured bodies remains speculative

Documento 71: 

the pathogenesis of viral influenzal pneumonia in mice . the pathogenesis of influenzal pneumonia in mice was studied by electron microscopy . mice were inoculated with 1.5 ld of pr8 influenza virus and killed at varying intervals after inoculation . observations by light microscopy were correlated with those by electron microscopy inorder to evaluate the lesions produced . at the periphery, the earliest lesions were focal areas of edema of alveolar lining cells, the capillary endothelium and the interposed basement membrane . this caused an appreciable thickening of the blood-air pathway . hypertrophy, degeneration and desquamation of the alveolar lining and proliferation of alveolar macrophages resulted in complete consolidation, which was progressive up to 1 week after infection . the central areas of the lung were affected somewhat differently . at 3 days after infection, the nonciliated bronchiolar cells showed considerable hyperplasia of endoplasmic reticulum and apical cytoplasmicedema . viral particles matured at the lumen surface of these cells and were then released into the bronchiolar lumen . the bronchiolar cells, both ciliated and nonciliated, underwent degeneration and sloughed into the bronchiolar lumen . the regenerating epithelium was stratified, and the surface cells were elongated and flattened . the peribronchiolar interstitial tissue gradually became totally infiltrated by cells, mostly of the mononuclear type .

Documento 913: 

electron microscopic studies of mycoplasma (pplo strain 880) inartificial medium and in tissue culture.mycoplasma strain 880, isolated from a leukemicpatient, was studied in brothcultures and in several cell culture lines.this strain exhibited considerable pleomorphismin size, internal structure, andshape, including forms with filamentousprojections. the most common form observedwas 0.5 to 1 in diameter andhad a nuclear area of fibrillar strands, probablydna. the cytoplasm of the organismscontained ribosome-like granules anda flattened vacuole which indented thenuclear area. there were various other forms,including 'elementary bodies' 100min diameter that were very electron-dense.in the tissue culture lines in whichthe cells grew as a monolayer, the mycoplasmawere closely associated with thecell surface and were occasionally seen inmembrane-lined cytoplasmic vacuoles.in cell lines that did not attach to the glass,the mycoplasma were fewer and notattached to the cell surface. although theultrastructure of this strain is similarto that of previously described strains, thereare differences in details of structurewhich may be related either to the growthconditions used or to characteristics ofthe strain. the various forms of the organismare consistent with the suggestionthat mycoplasma may have several mechanismsof reproduction (growth). the intracellularmycoplasma may be protected fromantibiotics. this would partly explainthe difficulty of eradicating mycoplasma frominfected cell cultures.

Documento 186: 

protein synthesis and polyribosomes in the calf lens . a cell-free system capable of incorporating amino acid into protein has been isolated from calf lens . polyribosomes have been shown to be present in the ribosomal fraction and to be responsible for most of the protein-synthesizing capacity of this fraction . the polyribosomes have been examined by electron microscopy and appear to be composed of long strands of ribonucleic acid, ranging from 7,000 a to 20,000 a, and con- taining a large number of ribosomes with an average diameter of about 140 a .

Documento 856: 

the ultrastructure, histopathology, andhistochemistry of the parathyroid glands of pregnantand nonpregnant cows fed a high level of vitamin d.the parathyroid glands of pregnant andnonpregnant cows were studied by light andelectron microscopy following the dailyfeeding of 30 million units of vit d for 30days and compared to untreated controls.in both the pregnant and nonpregnant cowsthe parathyroid glands became markedlyatrophic with a diminution in the amount ofparenchyma compared to the untreated controls.after vit d feeding the number ofactively secreting dark and intermediatechief cells was reduced and the percentageof inactive (light) and atrophic chief cellswas increased. the parathyroid glandsof the vit d-fed, nonpregnant cows weredominated by severely atrophic chief cells.these cells were characterized by theirhighly irregular shape, shrunken nucleusand cytoplasm, widened intercellular spacestraversed by numerous cytoplasmicprocesses, increased electron density, fewsecretory granules, inactive ergastoplasmand golgi complexes. atrophic chiefcells were not present in the untreatedcontrols. the predominating cell type inthe parathyroids of the vit d-fed pregnantcows were the inactive chief cells. in contrastto the atrophic chief cells, they werelarger and more regular in shape withrelatively straight cell membranes. theywere comparatively electron-transparent,containing more glycogen and fewersecretory granules. organelles concernedwith protein synthesis and packaging intosecretory units were poorly developed.inactive chief cells were observed onlyoccasionally in the parathyroid glands ofuntreated pregnant cows where the activelysecreting dark and intermediate chief cellspredominated.

Documento 275: 

3075. vaccinia pneumonia in mice. a light and electron microscopic and viralassay studyswiss white mice between 2 and 4 days of agedeveloped generalized vaccinia viralinfection 2 to 7 days after intranasal inoculation.gross and histologic evidence ofpneumonia was seen in more than 80% ofapproximately 300 mice. virus was re-covered in relatively high titers from thelungs (10 pfu per g) during the per-iod when pneumonia developed; viremiawas also present, but virus titers in theblood stream remained much below thosein the lungs. histologically, vacciniapneumonia was characterized by large swollenmononuclear cells giving rise tomarked widening of alveolar septa. onlyscattered neutrophils were noted, usuallyin association with cell necrosis. exudationof edema fluid and red cells into al-veoli was considered the result of viralreplication and cytopathic effect on cellscomprising alveolar septa. various formsof vaccinia virus were observed by elec-tron microscopy within both 'type i' and'type ii' alveolar lining cells, capillaryendothelial cells, and interstitial cellswithin alveolar walls. these infected inter-stitial cells were probably derived fromfixed macrophages and were noted alsoaround bronchioles. virus particles weresimilarly observed in bronchiolar epi-thelium and surrounding smooth musclecells. the earliest pathologic ultrastruc-tural change noted in virus infected cellswas intracellular edema, evidenced bylow electron density of the backgroundcytoplasmic material and dilatation of theendoplasmic reticulum. more extensivechanges resulted in cell necrosis withrelease of virus particles into the extracellular space.

Documento 403: 

1202. characteristics of human adenovirus type 12 induced hamster tumorcells in tissue culturecharacteristics of a human adenovirustype 12 induced hamster tumor serially pro-pagated in vitro are described. theseinclude small cell size, epithelioid appear-ance, rapid growth rate, resistance tosuperinfection with a-12, and transplant-ability to weanling hamsters. these cells greweither as monolayers or as balls ofaggregated cells detached from the glass,depending on whether calf serum or horseserum was added to the eagle's medium. attemptsto demonstrate virus activity bysubculture of supernatant fluids and lysed cells intohela cells, mixed culture withhuman and hamster cells, electron microscopy,and inoculation of newbornhamsters with irradiated tumor cells were negative.

Documento 143: 

enzymic synthesis of deoxyribonucleic acid xviii. the repair of partially single-stranded dna templates by dna polymerase . a partially single-stranded dna, prepared by limited digestion of eachstrand with exonuclease iii, can be restored to its native, fully double-stranded structure by escherichia coli dna polymerase . the rate of synthesis observed in the repair of such a partially degraded primer in the polymerase system is faster than that seen with a native dna . the newly synthesized dna is covalently attached to the primer . the fully repaired dna resembles the original native dna as judged by its appearance in electron micrographs, cscl density-gradient analysis, denaturability and genetic activity . dna synthesis which follows the repair phase produces a structure that is not covalently linked to the primer and resembles, in its nondenaturability, branched appearance, andlack of genetic activity, the product obtained with a native dna primer (schildkraut, richardson + kornberg, 1964) .

Documento 230: 

the morphologic demonstration of an alveolar lining layer and its relationship to pulmonary surfactant . the presence of an alveolar lining layer was histologically demonstrated in animal lungs by ultraviolet microscopy . this layer appeared as a thin fluorescent line at the air-tissue interface . the fluorescent lining layer could be abolished from lung sections by extraction with chloroform..methanol and was diminished by digestion with cl.welchii a-toxin lecithinase, suggesting that the structure was alecithin-containing lipid . an alveolar lining structure was also identified by the use of phosphatide and polysaccharide stains, suggesting that the lipid was a phosphatide, but that a mucopolysaccharide component might also be present . bilateral cervical vagotomy resulted in diminution or loss of the fluorescent alveolar lines and abnormal surface tension properties of lung extracts . this suggested that the presence of the fluorescent material was associated with the surface activity of the lung . alveolar lining structure could not be demonstrated by electron microscopy, even with special staining techniques .

Documento 266: 

the lymphocyte in guinea-pig bone marrow . the structure and distribution of lymphocytes in the bone marrow of normal 400 g guinea-pigs have been studied by means of light microscopy,electron microscopy, and radioautography . the study of structural organization by all three techniques confirms the morphological identityof the marrow small lymphocytes with small lymphocytes in other situations and affords added proof of the presence of a series of cells transitional in appearance between small lymphocytes and blast cells . unlike the small lymphocytes, transitional cells show evidence of dna synthesis . marrow small lymphocytes and transitional cells are diffusely scattered throughout the parenchyma, often situated in close proximity to the sinusoidal endothelium . they are also found characteristically concentrated within some of the sinusoids,. this is termed /lymphocyte loading/ . the findings are discussed with particular reference to the possible origin, interrelationship and fate of these cells .

Documento 466: 

3535. electron microscopic study of six cases of human renal amyloidosisthis study is particularly concernedwith (a) the basal membrane in the differentstages; and (b) the intercapillary spacesin the early stages. the conclusions maybe put as follows (1) the amyloid substanceseems to have a fibrillar structurefrom the start. (2) when the walls of theperipheral capillary loops are thickenedby voluminous amyloid deposits, thehyaline aspect of the primitive basal membranepersists, but its structure is altered bythe presence of multiple amyloid fibrils.(3) on the other hand, in the initial stages,amyloid fibrils cannot be seen in the'lamina densa' of the basal membrane; theyonly appear on the epithelial and endo-thelial surfaces of the membrane. this suggeststhat amyloidosis represents anabnormal precipitate of extrinsic origin, ratherthan a transformation 'in situ'of the basal membrane. (4) in the very early stagesof amyloid infiltration into theglomeruli the fibrillar substance is found first inthe intercapillary spaces, onlylater does it reach the peripheral capillary walls.

Documento 748: 

an electron microscopic study of developing gallbladder epithelium in the rabbitthe gall bladder epithelium of theadult rabbit consists of two types of cells.the first and more common type shows features associated with absorption,notably microvilli, limited pinocytosis, some lysosomes and an elaboration ofthe lateral cell membrane and intercellular spaces. the mitochondria areconcentrated in a subapical band.the second and more infrequent type is a dark rod-shaped cell of unknownfunction but which may be a dehydrated epithelial cell.foetal epithelial cells lack the functional adult characteristics; the mito-chondria are uniformly distributed. in addition they display basal granulesand apical apocrine bullae.epithelial cell damage and white cell infiltration occurs between 24 daysafter birth or just after.just before birth some epithelial cells are very large and pale with smoothoutlines, others are more dense and display vigorous pinocytosis.adult characteristics are acquired at or immediately after birth and pino-cytosis subsides. it is believed that water resorption occurs before thefunctional changes which allow continuous passage of water into thecirculation.

Documento 288: 

1689. alterations in pulmonary surface active lipids during ex-posure to increased oxygen tensionthe syndrome of progressive respiratorydistress, pulmonary edema, and increasedpulmonary surface tension was induced in8 dogs by exposure to oxygen tensionsgreater than 550 mm hg for 44.5 and 52hours. pulmonary surfactant was extractedby endobronchial washing for measurementof lipid composition and surface activity.five dogs developed respiratory distresswithout pulmonary edema. in these dogsendobronchial wash surface tension wasnormal or slightly increased, and totallipid distribution was essentially normal.esterified fatty acids in the lecithin frac-tion were consistently altered with areduction in palmitate and total saturated fattyacids. three dogs developed pulmonaryedema with increased surface tension, in-creased total lipid and protein, andrelatively decreased total phospholipid in theendobronchial washings. esterifiedfatty acids in the lecithin fraction were marked-ly altered with palmitate levels about1/3 normal. esterified arachidonate was pre-sent that was attributed to intra-alveolarplasma. electron micrographs of the lungafter oxygen exposure showed thickeningof alveolar basement membrane and altera-tions in the structure of the lamellar bodiesof the type ii alveolar epithelial cells.

Documento 408: 

4396. effects of arginine deprivation, ultraviolet radiation,and x-radiation on cultured kb cells. a cytochemical andultrastructural studycultured kb cells (derived from ahuman oral carcinoma) grown in monolayerswere injured by one of three agentsstarvation by arginine deprivation or treatmentwith high doses of either ultravioletradiation or x-radiation. the different agentsproduced changes in nucleolar structureand varying accumulations of triglycerideand glycogen. all three agents producedan increase in number and size of lyso-somes. these were studied in acidphosphatase preparations, viewed by both lightand electron microscopy, and, occasionally,in vital dye, esterase, and aryl sul-fatase preparations. ultrastructurally,alterations in lysosomes suggested that'residual bodies' developed in a varietyof ways, i.e., from the endoplasmic retic-ulum, multivesicular bodies, or autophagicvacuoles. following all three agents,the endoplasmic reticulum assumedthe form of 'rough' or 'smooth' whorls, and,after two of the agents, argininedeprivation or ultraviolet radiation, it acquiredcytochemically demonstrable acidphosphatase activity. near connections betweenthe endoplasmic reticulum and lysosomesraise the possibility that in kb cells, atleast when injured, the endoplasmicreticulum is involved in the formation oflysosomes and the transport of acidphosphatase to them.

Documento 508: 

1751. on the subunits of a-crystallina-crystallin was isolated from totalwater-soluble lens extract by preparative zoneelectrophoresis on starch or pevikonc870 blocks and purified by density gradientcentrifugation and sephadex chromatography.these preparations were treated withurea or sodium dodecyl sulphate andsubmitted to electrophoresis on polyacrylamidegels containing either urea or sodiumdodecyl sulphate. whereas in 7 m urea a largenumber of zones was detected, onlythree bands were observed in 1% sodium dodecylsulphate. on the other hand, thesedimentation coefficient had the same value in bothmedia. the authors re-investigated then-terminal amino acid content in the starch blockpreparations and compared the resultwith that obtained from the preparations isolatedaccording to their new procedure. theconcentration of dinitrophenyl-glutamic acidwas lower in the purified samples.urea-treated samples had the same concentrationof n-terminal glutamic acid whereasthe concentration of the 'trace' end-groups didnot change. sedimentation-diffusionequilibrium in the analytical ultracentrifugerevealed a slight heterogeneity in thepurified samples. electron micrographs ofelectrophoretic and of further purifiedsamples were very similar. at neutral orslightly alkaline ph they showed almostuniform spherical aggregates in which asubstructure was observed. at acid ph,coiled filaments rather than small globulescould be demonstrated.

Documento 473: 

2542. symposium on the fine structure and replication of bacteria and theirparts. ii. bacterial cytoplasmcomparison of the fine structure of thecytoplasm of the bacterial cell with that ofthe 'cell in general' reveals importantdifferences leading to the conclusion that, inthe bacterial cytoplasm, there is littledifferentiation into separate functional en-tities. there is no nuclear membrane, andfine fibrils appear to extend from the nucleo-plasm into the cytoplasm where they mayexpand in all directions. the cytoplasm is notnecessarily intersected by membranousprofiles of special configuration, as is borneout by e. coli b and other gram-negativeorganisms. when membranous profilesof special configuration are present, asin the gram-positive b. subtilis, thesedo not appear differentiated into clearlydefinable endoplasmic reticulum, golgisubstance, microbodies, etc., and mitochondria.as for kinetosomes, the presenceof centrioles is perhaps not very likely. theexperiments in which tellurite is re-duced in the cells suggest that there arestructures at the base of the flagella withreductive capacity. however, upon applicationof the tetranitro-blue tetrazoliumtechnic to b. subtilis, these are not stained.they are presumably identical withbasal granules. the membranous structuresin b. subtilis are called chondrioidsby the author because probably one of theirfunctions is that they are the sites ofthe respiratory enzyme chain. in thegram-negative p. vulgaris, the probable siteof the respiratory chain has a structurevery different from that in the bacillus; itis not clear whether membranes areinvolved in their structure. morphologically,even in b. subtilis chondrioids differfundamentally from the mitochondria in thatthey are not built up from compositemembranes, they are extensions of the plasmamembrane, and they may not be completelyclosed systems. regarding this lastpoint, it was observed that chondrioids maypossibly stand in open connection withthe cell's environment, since its lumen is notseparated from the cell wall by aplasma membrane. although as yet nothing isknown about this, it does not seem tobe precluded that these membranous organellesmay function also as intracellulartransport systems. contrary to porter's ideasabout er, the chondrioids are notextensions of a nuclear envelope, but of theplasma membrane. on the other hand,they are in the nuclear area, in direct contactwith the nucleoplasm, and therefore,perhaps, they need not carry in their interiorsome dna, as is now becoming knownfor ordinary mitochondria. the chromatophorevesicle is of a simple structure andin connection with the plasma membrane. it iscovered by a single membrane andthus resembles the granum disc, but it is muchsmaller. in tissue cells, an im-portant function of the er is the support of proteinsynthesis by ribosomes boundto their surfaces. evidence is now accumulatingthat the active complexes for poly-peptide synthesis in bacteria are also membrane-boundand are series of 70s ribo-somes using the same messenger rna molecule.it remains a contradictory situ-ation that the particles obtained here through releaseof cytoplasm from protoplastsin diluted, rather crude fixing media, and identifiedas ribosomes, could not berecognized as such in thin sections of the ryter-kellenbergerfixed protoplasts.this point is much in need of clarification. buteven if the cytoplasm in the thinsections of the protoplasts is in a state ofdispersion brought about artificially, itis still apparent from the various micrographsthat basically the cytoplasm is anetwork of presumably linear arrays, with manyinterconnections due to fibrillarsystems. fibrils from the nucleoplasm penetratedeeply into the cytoplasm. thepresence of fine fibrils of various thicknesses,electron densities, and orientationsmakes high-resolution study of the cytoplasmicdetails an intriguing prospect fromwhich much fundamental information can begained. the organizational pattern onthe ultrastructural level in bacteria revealsfundamental similarities and divergen-cies from that in the 'cell in general'.

			********** Consulta 4:  tissue culture of lung or **********

Documento 177: 

effect of parathyroid and other human tumors and tissues on bone resorption in tissue culture . mouse calvaria were grown in tissue culture in combination with singleor multiple fragments of a variety of human tumors and glandular tissuesto determine their capacity to enhance bone resorption . single fragments of parathyroid adenoma tissue consistently enhanced resorptionin both the frontal and the parietal bones . except for one squamous-- cell carcinoma of the lung which had some activity all other tissues tested as single fragments had no enhancing effect . on the other hand, all human tissues enhanced resorption when multiple fragments were placed in a halo around the calvarium, suggesting the presence of lesseramounts of resorption-enhancing factors in other human tissues .

Documento 96: 

the tissue reaction to hyperbaric oxygen . hyperbaric oxygen damages tissues exposed in vitro, but their sensitivity varies . if exposure is limited some tissues may recover . the effect appears to depend on oxygen tension rather than raised pressure per se . the tissue reaction may be involved in the clinical application of hyperbaric oxygen .

Documento 175: 

the occurrence of biologic crystals in tumor and nontumor cultures of c3h/hej mice . crystalline structures of various types have been found in primary tissue cultures of neoplastic and non-neoplastic tissues from c3h/hej mice . all of the cultures of mammary carcinoma tissue contained the crystals . the crystals were found in varying incidence in the cultures of several other tissues with the exception of those from the kidney . a'dialysis compartment' was not essential for the formation of the crystals . the development of the crystals was accelerated by a modification of the culture medium .

Documento 188: 

release of free fatty acids from adipose tissue obtained from newborn infants . summary the role played by mobilization of free fatty acids (ffa) fromadipose tissue in producing the typically high serum ffa levels of humaninfants has been studied . ffa concentrations in the serum and subcuta- neous adipose tissue from the gluteal region were determined during postnatal development . a maximum level was reached within 24 hr after birth, after which there was a gradual fall . in serum the ffa level at the end of 12 months was still higher than that in adults, while the ffalevel in adipose tissue was lower at 3 months than in adults . incubation of small pieces of adipose tissue in krebs-ringer phosphatebuffer containing 4 albumin led to release of ffa into the medium . thisrelease could be suppressed by the addition of glucose (200 mg/100 ml) for tissue from all age groups except the youngest (0-15 hr after birth)

Documento 540: 

5512. antigenic properties of human tumourspreliminary studies on the antigenicproperties of human tumours have beencarried out using heterologous antisera,prepared in rabbits, against a number ofdifferent cancerous and normal tissues.after repeated absorptions, antiserawere obtained which reacted only withtissue antigens. some antisera, after ab-sorption with normal tissues, reacted onlywith tumours. seventy-two tumour and31 normal tissue extracts were studiedby means of the ouchterlony agar geldouble diffusion technique. the resultsshowed the presence of an antigen orantigens in some human malignant tumourswhich were not detectable in normaltissues, in foetal tissues, or in hela cells.in addition, there was some loss ofnormal tissue antigens from tumours.attempts are being made to isolate andcharacterize these tumour and normaltissue antigens.

Documento 295: 

747. electrode size and tissue po2 measurement in rats exposedto air or high pressure oxygena comparison has been made of values ofpo2 recorded in several rat tissues with60-u or 330-u flexible gold electrodes.although qualitatively both sizes of elec-trodes give similar results, the quantitativevalues of po2 differ. such large differ-ences as are found in some cases betweenelectrodes varying only in physical di-mensions are thought to reflect the amountof trauma caused in the tissue under in-vestigation due to electrode insertion.errors in po2 estimations due to tissue da-mage are considered to outweigh any othererrors such as those due to electrodecalibration. soft, highly vascular tissues,such as liver, kidney and spleen, whichshow macroscopic bruising over quite alarge area when electrodes are inserted,show the greatest difference in estimationsof the po2 value. recordings of tissuepo2 were made while animals breathed airand when compressed to 4 or 5 atm. inpure oxygen, and the pattern of response oftissue po2 to such exposure of the ani-mal to high pressures of oxygen is described.

Documento 684: 

(on the erythropoietic effect of differenttissue suspensions)the stimulating effect on erythropoiesis of regenerated liver and hyper-trophic kidney tissue after partial hepatectomy and unilateral nephrectomyrespectively was studied in the rat by means of the erythrocyte count, haemo-globin determination, reticulocyte count and 59fe utilization. thereticulocyte count and 59fe utilization increased significantly after treatmentwith normal liver and renal tissue and more strongly after regenerated liverand hypertrophic kidney tissue. the same effect was seen after treatmentwith the sera of rats which had undergone partial hepatectomy or unilateralnephrectomy.

Documento 862: 

tissue distribution of electrolytes, ca and mg in experimentalhyper- and hypoparathyroidism.the effects of experimental hyper- andhypoparathyroidism on plasma and tissuedistribution of electrolytes and tissueexchangeability with ca and mg were studiedin dogs following acute renal pedicleligation. in hyperparathyroidism, plasma concentrationsof mg and inorganic p aswell as ca were increased. a greater accumulationof ca occurred in some tissuesand a lesser accumulation in others thanin acute hypercalcemia of comparableseverity and the fractional rate of exchangeof tissue ca was 30% more rapid thanin control and acute hypercalcemic dogs.bone exchange of ca was not significantlyincreased. cell mg concentrations werenot appreciably altered by hyperparathyroidismexcept for a significant 9% decreasein myocardium, but the fractional rateof exchange of tissue mg was increased.acidsoluble p concentrations were decreasedin 3 tissues and na and c1 concentrationswere decreased by 10 to 25% in 4 tissues.in hypoparathyroidism, in addition to adecreased plasma ca, the incrementin plasma inorganic p that usually occursafter renal pedicle ligation was 75% lessthan in control dogs. cell ca concentrationswere decreased by 10-40% but thefractional rate of exchange of tissue ca wasunaltered. although cell mg concentrationswere unaltered a 40% increase occurredin the exchangeability of skeletal musclemg. tissue na and c1 concentrations weredecreased by 20% in 2 tissues. it has beenpreviously reported that hypercalcemiaincreases cell ca concentrations by raisingthe extracellular ca concentration gradient.evidence has also been presented thathypercalcemia directly inhibits cellinflux of mg and na and cell efflux of k.with altered parathyroid activity, 2 typesof effects are observed: those which aredependent upon an abnormal extracellularca concentration and those which appear tobe due to intrinsic effects of parathormoneon cell cation transport. the presentdata are compatible with the hypothesesthat parathormone stimulates bidirectionaltransport of cell ca and p, stimulatescell influx of mg and opposes the effects ofhypercalcemia on cell transport of univalent ions.

Documento 209: 

mitotic lymphocytes in primary tissue cultures of normal and neoplastic human lung . normal and tumor tissue explants from 33 resected human lungs were studied in vitro . lymphocyte mitoses were observed in tissue cultures derived from 12 of the lungs . the ability of lymphocytes to undergo mitotic division in human lung tissue culture has not been reported previously . in the autologous systems used lymphocyte mitoses were muchmore common in cellular outgrowths derived from non-neoplastic tissue than they were in the outgrowths derived from cancer-bearing explants . no differences were observed in the total number of nondividing lymphocytes present in the non-neoplastic and neoplastic preparations . the in ritro systems employed are promising tools for further contributions to an already well established clinicopathologic relationship between lymphocytes and cancer cells . phase contrast and time-lapse cinephotomicrographic records were obtained of the mitotic process and special attention was paid to the structural details . certain findings were of particular interest, namely the formation of a dense chromatin ring during telophase, the variable occurrence of cytoplasmic bubbling, and the death of lymphocytes during early metaphase (/exploding/ metaphase) . an elaboration and discussion of these findings have been presented .

Documento 256: 

soluble tissue antigens in human brain tumor and cerebrospinal fluid . an a-2 globulin antigen present in human glioblastomas and immunologically identical with antigens present in human brain, liver, spleen, and metastatic carcinoma cyst fluid has been described . this protein antigen is not present in plasma, wbc, or normal csf . it has been demonstrated in the csf of three of 27 patients with tumors of the central nervous system . when present, it may represent a specific tissue protein fraction contributed by either the tumor itself or the adjacent cns tissue . the major protein components of normal and abnormal csf are derived from, or, at least, antigenically identical to,the plasma proteins .

Documento 324: 

4105. free fatty acid metabolism in chinese hamstersin normal chinese hamsters (cricetulusgriseus) the mean concentration of freefatty acids (ffa) in serum varied fromgroup to group, but was (1) consistently 4to 9 times greater than in rats, dogs,or man; (2) slightly higher than in syrianhamsters; (3) two- to four-fold higherthan in fasting or alloxan-diabetic rats. theepididymal adipose tissue of the chinesehamster (1) had initial concentrations offfa comparable to those in the rat andsyrian hamster; (2) released, in the sametime interval, 8- to 10-fold more ffain vitro than this tissue of the rat; (3) hadhigher concentrations of ffa after incubationthan the incubated tissue of the rat.the retroperitoneal (perirenal) adipose tissueof the chinese hamster was less ac-tive in release of fatty acids in vitro than theepididymal, but was, however, moreactive than the epididymal adipose tissue ofthe rat. these characteristics of ffametabolism in the chinese hamster wereapparently attributable to species, not toage, diet, or sex. in the chinese hamster,the weight of the epididymal adipose tis-sue per gram of body was relatively high.it appears that in this species the rate ofrelease of fatty acids from adipose tissueis great, leading to high ffa concentra-tions in serum. in chinese hamster and ratadipose tissues in vitro, glucose and in-sulin (separately) reduced the rate of releaseof ffa and the amount of ffa in thetissues, but glucose and insulin togetherproduced the greatest reduction. the netreduction in ffa release by glucose andinsulin in vitro was greater in tissue fromthe chinese hamster. insulin markedlyincreased glucose uptake by the adipose tis-sues of both species. the possible relationof the results to spontaneous diabetes inthe chinese hamster is discussed.

Documento 156: 

a comparison of the cytologic effects of leurosine methiodide and vinblastine in tissue culture . comparison of the degree and duration of arrest of metaphases in tissue culture cells by leurosine methiodide and vinblastine was made,. colchicine and demecolcine were included for reference purposes . all four drugs produced a similar cytologic effect, but vinblastine was mostactive and remained active for the longest period of time .

Documento 562: 

influence of parathyroid activity on ionexchange in various tissues1. balance data from three patients with hypoparathyroidism, who weregiven parathyroid extract, are presented. the metabolic response wascomplex. the data demonstrate losses of phosphate, magnesium, sodiumand potassium which were not accounted for by destruction of either boneor non-osseous tissues. preferential depletion of these minerals from bone,or loss from non-osseous tissues, must be presumed.2. the exchange of ca45, mg28, and p32 in a spectrum of rat tissues hasbeen studied in sham operated, parathyroidectomized, and parathyroidextract treated rats. the effects of parathyroidectomy on the developmentof magnesium deficiency were determined.3. four hours after parathyroidectomy, increased transport of calciuminto bone, kidney, intestine, liver, brain, and muscle was found. six daysafter parathyroidectomy equilibrium had been reestablished and exchangerates were identical to those in sham operated animals.4. the administration of parathyroid extract was associated with de-creased transport of ca15, mg28, and p32 into bone. ca15 exchange in kidneywas reduced but in all other tissues exchange of ca15 and mg28 was in-creased. p32 exchange in both intestine and kidney was mardedly increasedin animals receiving the extract.5. parathyroidectomy greatly minimized the manifestations of mag-nesium deficiency in young rats on magnesium deficient diets.6. the results suggest that parathyroid hormone may affect the trans-port and exchange of calcium, magnesium, and phosphate (and perhapssodium and potassium) in tissues other than those usually considered tobe target organs.

Documento 445: 

28029 enzymic synthesis of steroidsulfates. ii. presence of steroid sulfo-kinase in human mammary carcinomaextractsextracts of human primary and secondarymammary carcinomas were shown tocontain steroid sulfokinase(s) in every caseexamined. examination of normalbreast tissue surrounding the tumors revealedvery weak steroid sulfokinaseactivity in some instances. this was thought tobe due to the fibrous nature andpoor cellularity of the normal breast tissue.normal ovarian tissue specimens,obtained from cancer patients undergoingoophorectomy, did not generallycontain the enzyme, but trace levels were detectedin 1 of 5 specimens examined.steroids, without necessarily showing conversionto steroid sulfate, were observedto increase the incorporation of s35-sulfate intoone of the products formed enzy-mically on incubating breast tissue extractswith s35-adenosine-3'-phosphate-5'-phosphosulfate.

Documento 59: 

the course of influenza virus infection in mice.. organ tissues of infected mice tested by electron microscope . using the electron microscope the presence of inclusions could be shown in the lungs and liver of mice infected with the pr 8 strain . theinclusions contained particles of size and shape closely resembling the most frequently seen forms of influenza virus . the presence of inclusions in liver tissue might perhaps speak for the possibility of virus multiplication in this organ .

Documento 58: 

specific carcinoembryonic antigens of the human digestive system . a wide variety of human adult and fetal tissues were studied by immunodiffusion techniques in agar gel to determine whether they contained the tumor-specific antigen(s) previously found in colonic cancers . in the adult tissues it was demonstrated that identical antigens were present in all tested specimens of malignant tumors of theentodermally derived epithelium of the gastro-intestinal tract and pancreas, but were absent from all other tested adult tissues . the common antigenic constituents, therefore, represent system-specific cancer antigens of the human digestive system . system-specific cancer antigens have not previously been demonstrated in humans . experiments with fetal tissues demonstrated that identical antigens were also present in fetal gut, liver, and pancreas between 2 and 6 months of gestation . these components were named /carcinoembryonic/ antigens of the human digestive system . on the basis of the present findings and the recent work regarding control of the expression of genetic potentialities in various genetic potentialities in various types of cells, it was concluded that the carcinoembryonic antigens represent cellular constituents which are repressed during the course ofdifferentiation of the normal digestive system epithelium and reappear in the corresponding malignant cells by a process of derepressive-dedifferentiation .

Documento 234: 

cortisone and atypical pulmonary /epithelial/ hyperplasia further studies including electron microscopy, tissue culture, animal transplantation and long term observations . previous work in rabbits showed that there was a proliferation of cells within pulmonary alveoli following intratracheal injection of nitric acid and that the proliferation was greatly enhanced by the administration of cortisone to the animals . electron microscopic observations indicated that these were morphologically large alveolar lining cells . tissue culture studies of damaged and normal lung with and without cortisone showed no evidence for a direct effect of the drug on the proliferation of these cells . this observation, together with the knowledge that fibrosis was delayed in the cortisone treated animals, support the thesis that the cortisone effect is an indirect one . transplantation of damaged lung tissue to hamster cheek pouch failed to reveal evidence of growth . within the period of observation (99 to 420 days) there was evidence that the proliferation subsided considerably and no neoplasms developed

Documento 655: 

microbiological studies of reiter's diseaseattempts were made to demonstrate viruses andpplo in body fluids and synovial tissues of patientswith various rheumatic diseases. all attempts todemonstrate viruses were negative. pplo werelooked for in 499 specimens from 114 patients withrheumatic and non-rheumatic diseases. whereasthese organisms were readily isolated from genito-urinary specimens, they were found in none of 31synovial fluid specimens. they could not be grownfrom synovial tissue biopsies of patients withrheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, gout,gonococcal arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, traumaticarthritis, or arthritis accompanying ulcerative colitis,but they were present in one and possibly in two ofeight synovial tissue specimens from patients withreiter's disease. complement-fixation tests werenegative in nine patients with reiter's disease,including the two from whose synovial tissuespplo were thought to have been isolated.

Documento 152: 

some reactions of cytotoxic antibodies against previously unknown mouse isoantigens . the antiserum produced in c3h/he against c3h/st lymphosarcoma 6c3hed contains a mixture of at least two antibodies of different properties and specificities . anti h-5a is a hemagglutinating antibody removed by absorption with red cells and many tissues . anti v is a cytotoxin reacting with c3h/st tissue and 6c3hed but not with red cells. the reciprocal antiserum c3h/st anti c3h/he sarcoma mc1m is more complex . it contains the hemagglutinin anti h-6a and a variety of cytotoxins . one appears to be specific for c3h/he tissues and the tumor mc1m . another reacts with antigens on the c3h/go carcinoma bp8. two additional cytotoxins may also be present . immunization between sublines of the same inbred strain can result in the production of a variety of antibodies directed against unrelated antigens present on even long transplanted cells . the significance of

Documento 211: 

eye and kidney tissue reactions to heterologous anti-uveal antibodies . the uvea, lens capsule and kidney glomerulus in the albino wistar rat have a common antigenic component(s) . the uvea and lens capsule in the pigmented bovine eye also have a common antigenic component(s) . these results were demonstrated by the immunofluorescence technique . the common antigenic sites in the uvea were assumed to be the basement membrane surrounding the vascular trees in the tissues . the possibilityof the basement membrane participation as an antigenic source for inducing sympathetic ophthalmia is discussed .

Documento 206: 

isozymes of lactic dehydrogenase.. sequential alterations during development . applications of isozymes in various biological contexts have been reviewed . diagnosis of several disease states has been facilitated by examination of the serum isozyme pattern which has been shown to correlate in some conditions with the isozyme pattern of pathologically involved tissues . physico-chemical studies of human ldh isozymes have revealed differences among isozymes in affinity for a given substrate . comparative studies of ldh isozymes within the erythrocyte from various vertebrate species demonstrated a marked species variation in the numberof ldh isozymes, in the distribution of total ldh activity among them, and in their electrophoretic mobilities . during development of chick, rabbit, and human tissues characteristic sequential alterations in the ldh isozyme pattern occurred and consisted for liver and muscle in loss of the most rapidly migrating anodal bands and increased activity in thecathodal bands and slower migrating anodal bands . in heart the reverse changes were observed . if high enough ldh activities of early fetal tissue extracts were applied to the gel the full complement of ldh isozymes was observed,. however, in lower concentrations the cathodal bands, which in the starch gel disappear more rapidly on dilution than do the anodal bands, were not observed . a species-specific isozyme pattern is obtained in long term culture of rabbit, chick, and human cells . independently of the tissue of origin, there occurs in cells in culture a sequential series of isozyme alterations characterized by decreased intensity of rapidly migrating anodal bands . the shift towardprominence of cathodal isozymes during both fetal development and tissueculture can be explained by postulating the increased activity of the gene producing one of the subunits of ldh with a concomitant decrease inthe activity of the gene producing the second subunit . practical applications of the study of isozymes in tissue culture were discussed .

Documento 854: 

parathyroid extract-induced changes in the oxidation of citrate,succinate and other organic acids by liver.parathyroid extract (pte) or partiallypurified parathyroid hormone administered invivo markedly altered the oxidationin vitro by rabbit liver minces of citrate, -ketoglutarate-c, succinate-c, fumarate-cand lactate. with ca ++ present in theincubation medium, minces from ptetreated animals produced more co and hada greater o consumption than did controlminces. this stimulation was due, in partat least, to a more rapid decline in metabolicactivity of the control tissues. whenca++ was absent, total metabolism wasincreased and the tissue derived from ptetreated animals was less active than thecontrol tissue. the effect was detected asearly as 4 hr after injection (750 u/kg)and could be elicited with as little as 200 u(at 14 hr). the action of pte could notbe duplicated by the injection of cacl intothe animal. the data suggest that one effectof treatment was a general inhibition ofoxidation. the stimulation of metabolismcould be a consequence of this inhibitionor a separate unrelated alteration.

Documento 663: 

response of a serum glycoprotein to tissue injuryand necrosis1. the response to necrosis, hyperplasia and tumour growtha serum glycoprotein of the rat underwent a 20-fold increase during 15 daysgrowth of the walker tumour and this increase was not affected when the ratswere treated with terramycin. the protein increased at the same or a greaterrate when rats were subjected to ischaemic necrosis of one kidney or of two-thirds of the liver. boiled kidney tissue, on the other hand, had littleeffect upon the protein response, and kidney hyperplasia had none. it issuggested that this protein increase is a response to substances liberated fromdamaged or necrotic cells.

Documento 65: 

induced tumour resistance in rats . the human sarcoma hs has been grown in weanling rats treated with cortisone . this growth was modified by prior injection of various tissue antigens . active /immunity/ was produced by using human placentaor embryonic tissue as antigen, and similar results were obtained using suspensions of rapidly growing human tumours . the response to other human tissues varied.. foetal muscle and spleen were active, whereas adult plasma was inactive except from some patientswith extensive malignant disease . passive protection was produced by using certain human sera at the time of challenging with hs . sera from five women who aborted showed this characteristic . where the pregnancy continued to term, antisubstances were not found,. and they were present in the puerperium in only two out of fifty cases . further groups of rats were given rat embryonic tissues as antigen, and the tumour challenge was then made with walker tumour,. the results were variable . with a benzpyrene-induced tumour in a pure line of /wag/ rat the effect was not obtained except in isolated cases . in experiments in mice, using as challenge an irondextran induced mouse sarcoma, prior injection with embryonic mouse liver or placenta increased the resistance to the growth of the tumour, but the tumour hasnot as yet been produced in a pure-line mouse . on the other hand mouse experiments, using as challenge the crocker tumour, proved negative . it is suggested that immune reactions may play a part in causing some abortions .

Documento 70: 

a light and electron microscope study of developing respiratory tissue in the rat . 1. light microscopic observations on the development of the rat lung have shown the presence of glandular, canalicular and alveolar stages . 2. these same three stages can be identified by electron microscopy and all may be present in different parts of the lung at one time, e.g. at 40 and 45 mm. c.r. length . 3. in the glandular stage, the lung tissue itself has an immature appearance by light microscopy and by electron microscopy individual cells also are immature in respect of organelles . glycogen is present in immature cells . 4. during the canalicular stage, lung tissue becomes more vascular . 5. throughout all stages of development, the 'duct' or 'air' spaces are always lined by a continuous and complete epithelium, and blood vessels by a complete endothelium . 6. lamellated inclusion bodies are present in epithelial (endodermal) cells at an early stage of development . 7. micropinocytotic vesicles are present in large numbers in both epithelial and endothelial cytoplasm and it is suggested that in the foetus they may indicate absorption of amniotic fluid from alveolar spaces . 8. the mechanism of alveolar distension is discussed and its nature remains uncertain . 9. respiratory tissue of the rat is not fully differentiated at birth and the importance of this fact in human infants is discussed . 10. the adult blood-air barrier, consisting of epithelium, zona diffusa and endothelium, varies in thickness . this project was performed whilst both of us were in receipt of grantsfrom the medical research council of canada, for which gratitude is expressed . our gratitude is also expressed to miss sylvia smith for typing the manuscript .

Documento 654: 

further studies of agents isolated from tissue cultures inoculatedwith human leukaemic bone-marrowd. a. woodsmycoplasmas were isolated from tissue cultures inoculatedwith bone-marrow from leukaemic patients.all cultures which showed a cytopathic effect containedmycoplasmas.there was no evidence of mycoplasmas in control cultures.the mycoplasmas isolated seemed biologically and serologic-ally to be of one strain which was different from any previouslyreported as being isolated from human sources although therewas some relationship to a rodent mycoplasma, m. pulmonis.mycoplasmas cannot readily be distinguished from viruseselectron-microscopically.the relationship of mycoplasmas to leukaemia is not yetclear.

Documento 133: 

chromium, lead, cadmium, nickel and titanium in mice.. effect on mortality, tumors and tissue levels . about 700 mice were given throughout their lives 5 ppm cadmium, lead, chromium, nickel or titanium in drinking water while fed a diet deficient in cadmium and low in other metals . tissue concentrations comparable to those of man were observed . sex differences appeared . mortality of females was unaffected . mortality of males on cadmium, lead and nickel was increased compared with that of the chromium group, and of those on cadmium and lead compared with the controls . longevity of the oldest 10 of both sexes was less in lead and titanium groups, andof males in cadmium group, compared with controls . no metal was carcinogenic,. incidence of tumors in males on cadmium and lead, and in females given nickel was decreased . body weights at death were greater in titanium, chromium and lead groups . large increments of titanium, moderate increments of cadmium and nickel, and lesser increments of chromium and lead were observed in 5 organs, compared with controls . higher concentrations of cadmium and titanium occurred in younger mice and the other metals did not increase markedly in tissues with age . allmetals except chromium exhibited one or more signs of innate toxicity .

Documento 68: 

biosynthesis of glycoproteins i. incorporation of glucosamine- c into liver and plasma proteins of the rat . it has been shown that glucosamine-1- c administered intravenously to fed rats is rapidly removed from the blood stream and appears first as trichloroacetic acid-soluble derivatives in the tissues . this is followed by a conversion to macromolecules . at least 80 of the administered compound can be recovered in tissues . the liver is by far the most active organ in accumulating glucosamine . this is rapidly converted to protein-bound components of the liver particulate fraction (microsomes and mitochondria) and is then released to the plasma withoutappreciable accumulation in the soluble proteins of the liver . it is concluded that the glucosamine is transferred to the peptide chains of glycoproteins at some stage before these proteins are released from the liver particulate fraction .

Documento 179: 

bacteriophages that lyse mycobacteria and corynebacteria, and show cytopathogenic effect on tissue cultures of renal cells of cercopithecusaethiops.. a preliminary communication . bacteriophages isolated from sputum and resection specimens of pa- tients suffering from carcinoma of the lung were found to lyse coryne- bacteria and mycobacteria, and to produce a cytopathogenic effect on certain cells in tissue cultures . from the same and other patients withneoplastic disease, bacteria were isolated and described as coryne-my- cobacteria because of bacteriological features they shared with both species . these bacteria, which either were sensitive to mycobacterio- phages and corynebacteriophages or were phage-immune lysogenic bacteria,could be induced to produce lytic particles with phagolytic activity on corynebacteria and mycobacteria and a cytopathogenic effect on hela cells and on the renal cells of cercopithecus .

Documento 505: 

773. the effect of radiation on lenticular epithelial enzymesin young rabbitsthe mitochondrial fraction and the solublefraction of the epithelial cells of the lensfrom 6-week-old new zealand white malerabbits, exposed to 800 r of whole-headx-irradiation, were evaluated for glucose6-phosphate dehydrogenase, isocitratedehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase,glutathione reductase, glyceraldehydephos-phate dehydrogenase, purine nucleosidephosphorylase, nadph2 diaphorase, andnadh2 cytochrome c reductase activities.increased enzyme activities were notedin the irradiated lenticular tissues forpurine nucleoside phosphorylase, nadph2diaphorase and nadh2 cytochrome creductase. decreased activities for glucose6-phosphate dehydrogenase, malatedehydrogenase, glutathione reductase and gly-ceraldehydephosphate dehydrogenasewere observed in the lenticular tissues of ir-radiated animals. the activity of isocitratedehydrogenase was the same in the ir-radiated and in the control animals.

Documento 38: 

studies of nickel carcinogenesis fractionations of nickel in ultracentrifugal supernatants of lung and liver by means of dextran gel chromatography . chromatographic fractionations have been performed on the ultracentrifugal supernatants of homogenates of rat lung and liver by the use of columns of dextran gel (sephadex g-100) . a major proportion of nickel in these tissue supernatants has been demonstrated to be firmly bound to macromolecular constituents . following acute and chronic inhalation of carcinogenic levels of nickel carbonyl, the predominant increases in the concentrations of nickel have been observedin the macromolecular fractions . these findings are consistent with theprevious demonstration of nickel in purified preparations of ribonucleicacids (rna) from several rat tissues, and with the observation of increased concentrations of nickel in high-molecular weight rna from lung and liver following the inhalation of nickel carbonyl .

Documento 299: 

244. oxygen tension in human malignant disease under hyperbaricconditionsoxygen tensions were recorded continuouslyin tumours and normal tissues of 34 pa-tients pressurized in pure oxygen to 4 atmospheresabsolute. mean rises to 620 mm.hg and 320 mm. hg for tumours and normal tissuesrespectively were recorded.with patients breathing air at atmosphericpressure 22/90 (24%) of tumour elec-trodes registered po2values of less than 4 mm. hgcompared to only 2/39 (5%) of normaltissue electrodes. the results obtainedsuggest that oxygen polarography as a meth-od for determining po2 in 'solid' tissuesin vivo is complicated by many artefacts -particularly tissue damage due to electrodetrauma - which reduce its value to clin-ical research concerned with accurateinformation of absolute po2 values in intacttissues.

			********** Consulta 5:  the crossing of fatty acids **********

			********** Consulta 6:  ventricular septal defect occurring in **********

Documento 238: 

ventricular septal defect with prolapsed aortic valve and outflow tract obstruction . a case of ventricular septal defect combined with aortic valvular lesion and infundibular pulmonic stenosis is described . the right coronary cusp of the aortic valve, protruding through the ventricular septal defect, was demonstrated by right ventricular angiocardiography as a polyp-like mass in the right ventricular outflow tract . cardiac catheterization and angiocardiography showed progressive right ventricular outflow obstruction .

Documento 316: 

1636. ventricular septal aneurysms. a report of two casestwo cases of ventriuclar cuptal aneurysmare reported, one in the membranous and onein the muscular portion. the diagnosis wasmade by selective left ventricular angiogra-phy. it is suggested that these cases representspontaneous closure of a ventricular septaldefect with weakness and aneurysmal formationdue to the high left ventricular pressure.both are asymptomatic and hemodynamicallywithin normal limits. surgical repairof the aneurysms is not considered necessary.

Documento 112: 

cardiac malformations associated with ventricular septal defect . in this study, 46 necropsy-proved cases of ventricular septal defect associated with another anomaly but not part of a recognized complex were selected . the associated anomalies were classified as (1) obstructive or positional anomalies of the great vessels, (2) anomalies responsible foradditional shunts, (3) anomalies causing intraventricular obstruction and (4) aortic valvular insufficiency . clinical findings were often those of the ventricular septal defect, and the findings related to the associated lesion were frequently obscure . even with special studies, including cardiac catheterization and angiocardiography, there was often failure to arrive at a complete diagnosis . the findings which led to an erroneous or incomplete diagnosis have been presented . when a complete diagnosis was made preoperatively, the procedures leading to it have been outlined . while the diagnostic approach varies with the malformations which may coexist with ventricular septal defect, it was observed that aortography and selective left ventricular angiocardiography were most commonly helpful in identifying occult malformations associated with ventricular septal defect . it is therefore recommended that complete studies, including left-sided cardiac catheterization with left ventricular angiocardiography and aortography, should be considered in all cases in which the clinical, electrocardiographic, and right-sided cardiac catheterization studies are not entirely typical for isolated ventricular septal defect .

Documento 113: 

anatomic types of single or common ventricle in man morphologic and geometric aspects of 60 necropsied cases . in 60 necropsied cases of single or common ventricle in man, four major unrelated ventricular malformations were found.. (1) absence of the right ventricular sinus, in 47 cases (78 percent), designated type a,. (2) absence of the left ventricular sinus, in 3 cases (5 percent), type b,. (3) absence or rudimentary development of the ventricular septum, in 4 cases (7 percent), type c,. and (4) absence of both ventricular sinuses and of the ventricular septum, in 6 cases (10 percent), type d . three types of relationship between the great arteries were present.. a normal (solitus) interrelationship, in 9 cases (15 percent), designated type 1,. d-transposition, the transposed aortic valve lying to the right (dextro, or d), relative to the transposed pulmonary valve,in 25 cases (42 percent), type ii,. and l-transposition, the transposed aortic valve lying to the left (levo or l), relative to the transposed pulmonary valve, in 26 cases (43 percent), type iii . in none was the inversus interrelationship, type iv, displayed . three types of visceral and atrial situs were found.. solitus, or normal, in 50 cases (83 percent),. inversus, an exact apparent mirror image of normal, in 2 cases (3 percent),. and heterotaxy, the uncertain visceral and atrial situs associated with asplenia, in 8 cases (13 percent) . the 60 cases were classified segmentally, according to the anatomy of the three cardiac segments.. the great arteries, the ventricular sinuses, and the atria . the classic single ventricle with a rudimentary outlet chamber was found morphologically to be a large left ventricle with a right ventricular infundibulum, the sinus of the right ventricle being absent (type a) . the myocardium of the right ventricular infundibulum, of the right ventricular sinus, and of the left ventricular sinus was identified by the distinctive gross morphologic characteristics of each . the planes of the atrial and ventricular septa, and the relationships between the great arteries at the semilunar valves, were measured as projections upon the horizontal plane, relative to the anteroposterior line . an approach to cardiac anatomy is presented which is segmental, morphologic and geometric . this approach has angiocardiographic, electrocardiographic and embryologic applications .

Documento 242: 

surgical treatment of ventricular septal defect . the surgical technique of closure of ventricular septal defects in 80 cases (37 cases of isolated defects and 43 cases of tetralogy of fallot)is discussed in the light of the follow-up results . the use of a patch for closure has reduced the incidence of recurrence to 4 percent, com- pared with 18 percent when direct suture was performed . the incidence of heart block also decreased from 15 percent, when direct suture was used, to 4 percent with a patch . the transatrial approach is preferred for isolated ventricular septal defects,. the ventricular approach is preferred for cases with tetralogy of fallot . in cases combined with aortic insufficiency only small defects are closed through the aorta . larger defects are closed in the usual way at a first stage operation, and a total valve prosthesis is introduced at a second operation . therewas an operative mortality of 6 percent in isolated ventricular septal defects, compared with 27 percent in cyanotic patients with tetralogy offallot .

Documento 253: 

radical operation for ventricular septal defect in infancy . ventricular septal defect is the most common congenital anomaly of theheart in infancy, and has a poor prognosis . we have operated upon 18 infants all under one year of age for ventricular septal defect . there has been successful repair in 16 cases . at present, hypothermia with a surface cooling method has proved to besuperior to the artificial heart-lung machine because of the simplicity and the good operative results with its use . in addition, early operation during the infantile period will cause less psychological impact on infants . these advantages are sufficient for us to advocate radical operation of ventricular septal defect in infancy, even including the severely ill children .

Documento 116: 

ventricular septal defect and aortic regurgitation clinical, hemodynamicand surgical considerations . the clinical, hemodynamic, angiographic and anatomic findings in fifteen patients with ventricular septal defect complicated by aortic regurgitation are presented . in this combination of malformations the aortic regurgitation is acquired and results from prolapse of an aortic valve leaflet into the septal defect . the strategic location of the septal defect in relation to the aortic leaflets appears to be more important to the development of this complication than the size of the defect or the magnitude of the shunt through it . the onset of aortic regurgitation occurs during early childhood and, once present, tends to become more severe . careful observation of patients with these defects is indicated following the appearance of aortic regurgitation since rapid progression to severe left ventricular failure is not uncommon . ventricular septal defect and aortic regurgitation must be distinguishedfrom other cardiovascular abnormalities producing a wide pulse pressure with a continuous or to-and-fro murmur . cardiac catheterization and thoracic aortography are the diagnostic procedures most helpful in this differentiation . the operative treatment of ventricular septal defect and aortic regurgitation is reviewed and, on the basis of the present and previously reported results, suggested plans for surgical managementare presented .

Documento 260: 

ventricular septal defect with aortic insufficiency a clinical and hemodynamic study of 18 proved cases . eighteen patients with the combination of ventricular septal defect and aortic insufficiency were studied . nine also had infundibular pulmonary stenosis . seventeen were treated by open-heart operations . the physical findings were those of a typical ventricular defect murmur and thrill together with an aortic insufficiency blow and a wide pulse pressure . a systolic murmur at the upper left sternal border withthrill is strongly suggestive of the additional lesion of infundibular pulmonary stenosis, but the presence or absence of infundibular pulmonary stenosis was indicated most accurately at cardiac catheterization and on inspection at operation . it was not of sufficient severity for signs of additional right ventricular hypertrophy to appear on the electrocardiogram . retrograde aortography serves to demonstrate the severity of the aortic regurgitation . the problem of the surgical correction of these lesions will be the subject of a separate communication .

Documento 410: 

464. cardiac performance in hypothermia. an experimental study of leftventricular power, oxygen consumption, and efficiency in dogsmultiple cardiac parameters have been measuredin 30 dogs cooled to 20 c. aorticblood temperature. the parameters have beenexpressed both as absolute valuesand as percentages of normothermic values.at normothermia, dogs with closedchest had an ascending aorta flow of 154%and a left ventricular external power of183% of the corresponding values for dogswith open chest. both ascending aortaflow and left circumflex coronary artery flowwere reduced to 25% of normothermic levelat 20 c. aortic arch mean pressure wasreduced to 50% of normothermic levelat 20 c. total peripheral resistance wasincreased to 205% of normothermic levelat 20 c. left ventricular external powerwas decreased to 11% of normothermiclevel at 20 c. left ventricular oxygenconsumption was decreased to 31% of nor-mothermic level at 20 c. mechanicalefficiency of the left ventricular myocardiumwas decreased to 39% of normothermic level at 20 c.

Documento 320: 

1831. postoperative aneurysm of the right ventricletwelve patients with postoperative aneurysmof the right ventricular outflow tractafter corrective surgery for pulmonic valvarstenosis, ventricular septal defect andtetralogy of fallot are reported. the literatureis reviewed and the pathogenesis isdiscussed. different diagnostic tests are evaluatedstressing the role of roentgenexaminations and the importance of careful follow-upby intercalative chest roent-genography.

Documento 92: 

demonstration of ventricular aneurysms by radioisotope scanning . radioisotope scanning of the cardiac blood pool after the intravenous injection of i -labeled iodipamide was carried out in 14 patients with ventricular aneurysm . in 4, the aneurysm could be demonstrated on neither the anteroposterior chest roentgenogram nor the scan . in 5, theaneurysm was apparent on the radiograph, but the blood pool did not enter the area, suggesting a thrombus within the aneurysm . in 5, the aneurysm was detectable on the film and was also seen to be filled with radioactivity on the scan . presumably these findings showed that a thrombus had not yet formed . blood pool radioisotope scanning appears to be another tool in the diagnosis of ventricular aneurysm, useful alsoin demonstrating in some patients the presence or absence of an intraluminal clot within the aneurysm .

Documento 115: 

a study of ventricular septal defect associated with aortic insufficiency . clinical, electrocardiographic, radiographic, and hemodynamic findingsin 12 children with the combination of a ventricular septal defect and aortic insufficiency are presented . the left-to-right shunt was determined to be small or moderate in all, and significant aortic insufficiency was documented by aortography in 11 patients . clinical indication of aortic insufficiency as manifested by an aortic diastolic murmur first appeared at an average age of 6 years in 7 patients, with concomitant widening of the pulse pressure in 4 . progressive left ventricular hypertrophy was noted electrocardiographically, with progressive cardiac hypertrophy and aortic dilatation on x-ray examination in 2 patients . progression of the hemodynamic disability does not appear to be common in childhood, however .

Documento 243: 

some hemodynamic observations in congenital heart disease with special reference to pressure curves in ductus arteriosus . hemodynamic observations in 100 congenital heart disease cases are made based on data in the department of pediatrics, kyoto university between may 1961 and december 1963 . we have classified these 100 cases according to the malformation from the hemodynamic view point . our cases were classified into the following groups . (1) ventricular septal defect 35 cases small ventricular septal defect 20 moderate ventricular septal defect 9 marked ventricular septal defect 4 ventricular septal defect with pulmonary stenosis 2 (2) patent ductus arteriosus 21 (3) atrial septal defect 19 atrial septal defect 14 atrial septal defect with pulmonary stenosis 5 (4) pulmonary stenosis 5 (5) tetralogy of fallot 14 (6) aortic stenosis 3 (7) aortic insufficiency 3 aortic insufficiency with ventricular septal defect 2 aortic insufficiency with pulmonary stenosis 1 in sonre small ventricular septal defect, we tried the vasoactive drugs . phenylephrine was injected slowly into the right ventricle via the catheter, a rapid rise in femoral arterial pressure associated with bradycardia and intensiffication of the systolic murmur was observed . after the administration of amyl nitrite, a rapid fall in femoral arterial pressure associated with tachycardia and softening of the sys- tolic murmur was observed . in patent ductus arteriosus, when the cardiac catheter is withdrawn slowly from the aorta into the pulmonary artery, the outstanding pressure curve is recorded in ductus arteriosus . the systolic pressure curve in the ductus arteriosus is the same as the systolic pressure in the aorta and the diastolic pressure curve in the ductus arteriosus has a diastolic dip followed by a late diastolic pressure peak . in patent ductus arteriosus, when the cardiac catheter is withdrawn from the left pulmonary artery to the right ventricle, the pressure curve reveals a considerable characteristic rise in pulmonary arterial pressure which is regarded as an effect of the transmission of systemic pressure through the ductus arteriosus .

Documento 323: 

1021. left ventricular angiocardiography in the study of ventricularseptal defectssixty-five cases of ventricular septal defectwere studied by left angiocardiography.the left ventricle was entered by retrogradearterial catheterization with a catheterhaving a j-shaped tip. this procedure appearsto be little, or no more, hazardousthan right-sided angiocardiography. ventricularseptal defects may be divided into5 types, depending on their location in the ventricularseptum. the anatomic andradiological features of the septum and septal defectsare described. selective in-jection of contrast material into the left ventricleopacifies the blood passing throughthe defect in the septum and permits preoperativelocalization of the defect in rela-tion to identifiable anatomic landmarks. multipledefects of the septum are well de-monstrated. such information may be ofconsiderable value to the surgeon under-taking repair of the septum. left ventriculography,often combined with supraval-vular aortography, has been used, when indicated,to differentiate between mitralinsufficiency and ventricular septal defect and inthe detection of other cardiac ano-malies whose manifestations are marked by thoseof the septal lesion. this tech-nique is well suited to the postoperative study ofpatients following repair of theseptal defect and for follow-up studies in patientsnot operated upon to clarify thenatural history of defects in different portions ofthe ventricular septum.

Documento 389: 

2717. the value of quantitative radiocardiography in the studyof hemodynamicssix normal subjects and 7 patients with mitralstenosis were studied. quantitativeradiocardiographic investigations (rihsa) wereperformed according to donato'smethod. the stroke volume as well as the cardiacoutput were found to be decreasedin mitral stenosis, the right ventricular evacuationratio diminished, and the pul-monary circulation time prolonged. the resultspertaining to diastolic right ventricu-lar capacity, right ventricular resting blood volumeand pulmonary blood volumeproved inconclusive.

Documento 383: 

3485. measurement of the cardiac output and ventricularvolumes by radiocardiographycardiac output was measured by externalcounting after injection of radioisotopes(rihsa and erythrocytes-cr51). the resultsin 113 subjects, including 16 normals,are presented and compared with the resultsby other methods. cardiac output atrest and after exercise was compared in 65 subjects.the principle of ventricularvolume measurement by radioisotope-cardiography isdiscussed. the results ofmeasurement of the ventricular volume in 17 normalsubjects and 90 patients, andof measurement of the ventricular volume in 57 patients,are presented.

Documento 118: 

effects of aortic regurgitation on left ventricular performance direct determinations of aortic blood flow before and after valve replacement .the volume of regurgitant blood flow and its effects on the performance of the left ventricle were assessed at operation in 14 patients with varying degrees of aortic regurgitation . instantaneous forward and regurgitant flows in the ascending aorta were measured with a sine-wave electromagnetic flowmeter simultaneously with left ventricular and aortic pressures . in eight patients who had aortic regurgitation without associated stenosis, 63 to 75 percent of the totalforward stroke volume regurgitated during the succeeding diastole . the calculated regurgitant orifice areas ranged from 0.13 to 0.44 cm /m . after replacement of the aortic valve with a starr-edwards prosthesis, the absence of regurgitant flow was proved in every patient, and the records of aortic blood flow closely resembled those seen in patients with normal aortic valves . net forward blood flow increased by an average of 60 percent, total left ventricular stroke volume fell 42 percent, and the mean aortic pressure rose 29 percent . the pressure work of the left ventricle was elevated preoperatively in five of the eight patients (average 89 g-m stroke/m ) and fell significantly to an average of 34 g-m stroke m after valve replacement . kinetic ventricularwork was high in seven of the eight patients and comprised 10 percent oftotal work before replacement but only 4.8 percent afterward . similar observations were made in five patients with aortic stenosis and associated aortic regurgitation, ranging in severity from 24 to 72 percent of total forward stroke volume . in four patients in whom the valve was replaced, no residual regurgitation was present afterward, andnet forward flow rose an average of 49 percent . kinetic left ventricular work was extremely high in every patient and averaged 26 percent of total work preoperatively and 13 percent after valve replacement . in this group, pressure work was variable both before and after operation . the studies described provide definitive information concerning the effects of aortic valve disease on left ventricular performance in man and document the favorable changes in flow, pressure, and left ventricular work which immediately follow aortic valve replacement .

Documento 311: 

2950. aortico-left ventricular tunnel. a cause of massive aortic regurgitationand of intracardiac aneurysmthe clinical, roentgenographic, hemodynamicand pathologic findings in a 14-year-old boy with aortico-left ventricular tunnel arepresented. the accessory channelbetween the aorta and left ventricle resulted inmassive aortic regurgitation, andthe portion of the tunnel which traversed theventricular septum was aneurysmal,displaced the posterior wall of the rightventricle and caused severe obstructionto right ventricular outflow. the presenceof associated cardiovascular anomalies,in this and previously reported cases,suggests that the malformation is congenitalrather than acquired. the clinical andhemodynamic manifestations of aortico-leftventricular tunnel are indistinguishablefrom those observed with the more commonforms of aortic regurgitation, and thecorrect diagnosis can be established only bythoracic aortography. the malformationis usually recognized in childhood; sinceaortic regurgitant flow can be abolished bysimple closure of the aortic ostium,and without aortic valve replacement, theindications for operative treatmentdiffer from those which apply in aorticregurgitation due to a valvular anomaly.

Documento 88: 

radiocardiography.. principles and methods . the aa show the importance of radiocardiography, as a method to evaluate the cardiac output, the ventricular volumes and the pulmonary blood volume . in this first paper, they are particulary concerned with some technical aspects, which are very important to collect data . the position of the collimator on the precordium, the injection of isotopes through a catheter, just behind the ventricle near the tricuspid valve, the selection of ratemeter constants the velocity of paper on the recorder and the way to read the area of the curve, were specially discussed . finally, they present the formula used to calculate cardiac output, ventricular volumes and pulmonary blood volumes .

Documento 239: 

functional adaptations of the right ventricular outflow tract in congenital heart disease . functional adaptations in the right ventricular outflow tract have been discussed in relation to the development of acquired /pulmonary stenosis/ . it is concluded that physical forces as well as structural abnormalities may greatly influence both the clinical picture and the life history of many patients with congenital heart lesions . the importance of further serial haemodynamic studies to provide a fuller understanding of the natural course of many lesions is stressed, so that better advice about prognosis and the optimal time for surgical treatment may be given .

Documento 244: 

a study on the direction of inscription of the vectorcardiographic t-loop in left and right ventricular hypertrophy . (1) frank lead vectorcardiogram was recorded in 30 normal persons and in 323 cases with hypertension and acquired and congenital heart diseasethe t-loop was classified into 8 types according to the directions of inscription in 3 planar projections . frequently observed types were examined with the direction of the maximal t vector . (2) in majority of normal cases, the t-loop was inscribed counterclockwise in horizontal and clockwise in sagittal planes . (3) in left ventricular hypertrophy, abnormal inscription of the t-loop was observed with abnormal rightward and superior deviation of its maximal vector and the t-loop oriented more than 120 in horizontal plane was usually accompanied by abnormal inscription . percentage of abnormal inscription was higher in cases with cardiac complaints . (4) in right ventricular hypertrophy, directional change of the t-loopwas relatively small but changes in inscription of it were common . the t-loop was always inscribed abnormally in cases with abnormal inscription of the qrs-loop . (5) the concept of the polar vector was found to be valuable in studying the inscription and the direction of the t-loop . significance of changes in inscription of the t-loop was discussed .

Documento 321: 

1991. ventricular septal defect with aortic regurgitation.medical and pathologic aspectsthirty-four patients with ventricular septal defectand aortic regurgitation, repre-senting less than 5% of the patients with ventricularseptal defect, are discussed.a loud, systolic murmur, characteristic of ventricularseptal defect, is noted dur-ing infancy, whereas evidences of aortic regurgitation(protodiastolic murmur andwide pulse pressure) does not usually appear until sometime between 2 and 10years of age. clinical and catheterization data indicatethat the principal hemody-namic load is aortic regurgitation, whereas theventricular septal defect does notusually result in a large pulmonary blood flow orhigh pulmonary arterial pressure.in about 50% of the patients, a significant pressuregradient across the right ven-tricular outflow tract exists. detailed pathologicstudies indicate that the ventricularseptal defects are high and anterior and encroachto a greater or lesser degree onthe membranous bulbar septum. the right coronarycusp is the one most severelyinvolved, and, by its prolapse, causes aorticregurgitation; the noncoronary cuspis always less severely affected. the anatomic basisof the pressure gradient ob-served across the right ventricular outflow tract isnot always clear.

Documento 419: 

4613. selective brain cooling produced by cerebral ventricular perfusionhypothermic cerebral ventricular perfusionwas applied to dogs. shivering appear-ed to be directly related to the cns temperaturerather than the peripheral bodytemperature. selective heating of the brain-stemproduced panting. rewarmingof the body was retarded by the initiation of heatloss mechanisms controlled cen-trally when hyperthermic perfusion was used.shivering disappeared but pantingwas unaffected by pentobarbital anesthesia.cooling of one or both frontal areas andthe anterior part of the third ventricle did notsignificantly affect the respiratoryor circulatory systems but brain-stem hypothermiaproduced distinct respiratoryand circulatory reactions. it is suggested thatcooling of the 3rd and 4th ventricu-lar areas may be utilized for anesthetic purposes.

Documento 314: 

2497. pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septumwhen the pulmonary valve is atretic andthe ventricular septum intact, the rightventricle usually consists of a small chamberwith a very thick wall capable of de-veloping high pressure. this pathologic pictureis associated with clinical findingssimilar to those in tricuspid atresia-cyanosis,decreased pulmonary flow, left ven-tricular preponderance on the electrocardiogram,and early death. the diagnosismay be confirmed by heart catheterization andselective angiocardiography with in-jection into the right ventricle, but the risk isgreat. surgery has never been suc-cessful in the past; but because of the equallyhopeless prognosis on medical treat-ment, attempts should continue to be made.anastomosis of the superior vena cavato the right pulmonary artery appears to offerhope of success in the future.

Documento 313: 

2753. left ventricular function following replacement of theaortic valve. hemodynamic responses to muscular exerciseevaluations of left ventricular myocardialfunction were carried out in 14 patients4-16 mth after stenotic or regurgitantmalformations of the aortic valve had beencorrected by valve replacement. thecirculatory responses to exercise, judged bythe increases in cardiac output in relationto the increases in oxygen consumption,were normal or only mildly reduced in 12patients. in 5 patients the relationshipsbetween the change in the left ventricularend-diastolic pressure and the alterationin the stroke volume were also normal, afall or an increase in left ventricularend-diastolic pressure of less than 3 mmhg being accompanied by an increase instroke volume. in 8 patients, however,abnormal increases in the left ventricularend-diastolic pressure occurred duringexercise, and in 4 the left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was increased to levelsabove 12 mm hg. variable alterations inthe stroke volume accompanied these increasesin end-diastolic pressure. it issuggested that in the 3 patients who exhibitedsimultaneous increases in left ven-tricular end-diastolic pressure and strokevolume, the changes were either a mani-festation of the frank-starling mechanism,or primarily the result of a positiveinotropic influence. in the 5 patients whoexhibited increases in left ventricularend-diastolic pressure, but no change or afall in stroke volume, it is proposedthat a distinct depression of left ventricularperformance was present. thus, whilethe cardiac output response was adequate tomeet the stress of exercise in themajority of the patients studied following aorticvalve replacement, determinationof the relationship between the left ventricularend-diastolic pressure and the strokevolume permitted the detection of abnormalitiesin the function of the left ventricle.

Documento 322: 

2431. the natural history of arrhythmias following septal defect reapirthe repair of 191 atrial and ventricular septaldefects between 1955 and 1961 wasreviewed to determine the incidence and prognosisof arrhythmias related to operation.cases included 90 ventricular septal defects, 61atrial defects of the ostium secundumtype, and 40 of the ostium primum variety.nodal rhythms, second degree blocks,complete heart block, and flutter or fibrillation thatpersisted after completion of operationwere analyzed, while intermittent ectopic beats,sinus tachycardia, and bundle branchblocks were excluded. fifteen per cent of thepatients with ventricular defects, 17%with ostium primum defects, and 35% with ostiumsecundum defects developed abnormalrhythms associated with repair. of 18 patients whosearrhythmias began during operation,there were 8 deaths; no fatalities occurred in the 24patients who developed arrhythmiasin the postoperative period. seven deaths wereassociated with complete heart block andone with second degree block. although only onehalf of the patients who developedarrhythmias had pulmonary artery pressure greaterthan 30 mm. hg systolic, all fatalitiesoccurred in this group. four of the deaths followedsurgery with the use of the pumpoxygenator in children under 30 months of age.thirty-eight per cent of the abnormalrhythms that began in the postoperative periodwere nodal. flutter and fibrillationwere common following repair of atrial secundumdefects in patients over 15 yr. of agebut did not occur in younger patients. deaths fromheart block occurred in the first 30 daysfollowing operation except one, 5 months later.survivors of complete heart block revertedto a less serious arrhythmia or normal rhythmwithin 3 months.

Documento 122: 

aneurysm of the membranous septum . 1. aneurysms of the membranous septum are relatively rare lesions presumably developing on a congenital basis . these aneurysms originate in the left ventricle immediately beneath the aortic valve and bulge into the right ventricle, the septal leaflet of the tricuspid valve or into the right atrium . 2. many of these aneurysms do not produce symptoms . others may cause right ventricular outflow tract obstruction or may rupture and result ina septal defect . the resulting shunt will be from the left ventricle into the right atrium or ventricle . 3. an aneurysm of the membranous septum may be an isolated abnormalityor be associated with other congenital cardiac defects, particularly aortic valvular insufficiency . membranous septal aneurysms may be the site of bacterial endocarditis or thrombus formation . 4. aneurysms resembling those arising from the membranous septum may occur as part of the complex of deformities produced by an endocardial cushion defect . however, the angiographic features diagnostic of a cushion defect can still be recognized . 5. the presence of a septal aneurysm can be established only by angiocardiography . the diagnostic features as seen on the left ventricular angiocardiogram are presented .

Documento 380: 

2476. studies on cardiac dimensions in intact,unanesthetized man. i. description of techniques and theirvalidation. ii. effects of respiration. iii. effects ofmuscular exercisea method is described which permitsmeasurement of relative changes in the exter-nal dimensions of individual cardiacchambers throughout the cardiac cycle in intact,unanaesthetized man. it consists ofsuturing multiple radiopaque silver-tantalumclips to the surface of the heart at thetime of cardiac operations. in the postopera-tive period, cineradiograms areobtained and the distances between clips are mea-sured on each individual frame.this technique has been found to be safe and hasbeen employed in 68 patients withoutany complications. as a result of studies in 8patients utilizing biplane serial exposures,the effects of rotation of the heart in thesagittal plane during the cardiac andrespiratory cycles were determined precisely.if clips were properly placed on the heart,the possible errors resulting from suchrotation were found to be quite small.during inspiration right ventricular dimen-sions increased, while the opposite occurredduring expiration and during the val-salva manoeuvre. left ventricular dimensionsexhibited little change during normalrespiration. during deep, slow inspiration,the changes in dimensions of the leftventricle lagged behind those of the rightventricle by 1 to 5 (generally 2 or 3) car-diac cycles; the magnitude of the changes inthe dimensions of the left ventricle wassmaller than that which occurred in the rightventricle. the effects on ventriculardimensions of light muscular exercise performedin the supine position were studiedin 9 patients. the end-diastolic dimensionsdecreased by an average of 6.0% of con-trol in the right ventricle, and by an average of5.1% in the left ventricle. end-sys-tolic dimensions decreased by an average of 5.6%of control in the right ventricleand by an average of 6.5% in the left ventricle.these decreases are considered toapproximate one-half of the resting stroke volume.in the 4 patients in whom therate of right ventricular pressure rise was determinedcontinuously, exercise re-sulted in an elevation of dp/dt while ventricularend-diastolic dimensions decreased.these data are interpreted to indicate that anincrease in myocardial contractilityoccurs during muscular exercise in man.

Documento 124: 

factors limiting survival after circulatory occlusion under hypothermia and hyperbaric oxygenation . thirty minutes of circulatory occlusion with mild hypothermia and hyperbaric oxygen ventilation resulted in a mortality of 83.3 percent inanimals . when coronary perfusion from a reservoir was added, the mortality rate was 22 percent . ventricular fibrillation was much more easily reversed after coronary perfusion . there was no evidence of brain damage in survivors which leads to the conclusion that the brain tolerates circulatory arrest better than the heart under these conditions .

Documento 114: 

congenital heart disease in the adult . events in the natural course of 310 adult patients with proved significant congenital cardiac anomalies have been reviewed to determineincidence, longevity, complications and cause of death . atrial septal defect and patent ductus arteriosus were the most frequently encountered lesions and comprised over one third of the entire series . ventricular septal defect and pulmonic stenosis made up almost a quarter of the group . twenty-two instances of the eisenmenger syndrome secondary to a variety of shunting lesions are included . bacterial endocarditis, sudden death and cardiac decompensation were the greatest threats to these patients . symptoms were minimal until theappearance of heart failure, which was the most common cause of death, especially with older patients . sudden death occurred most often in patients with ventricular septal defect . although the clinical features are usually characteristic of a congenital malformation, young adults with acyanotic congenital heart disease are often misdiagnosed as rheumatic,. and in older patients, presenting manifestations are frequently attributed to arteriosclerotic heart disease . at times an associated acquired cardiovascular disorder may alter the basic syndrome . three quarters of the patients survive and continue under observation the ability of many to live active, productive lives and to withstand stress, surgery, both cardiac and non-cardiac, and pregnancy was impressive . further observation of the patient with congenital heart disease but without surgical intervention is essential for accurate evaluation of the long term efficacy of cardiac surgery .

Documento 421: 

974. extracorporeal hypothermia without thoracotomy. an ex-perimental study in the use of cold for neurosurgery andcancericidal perfusionsthis paper includes minor clinical noteson open heart surgery and cancer perfusionbut contains no experimental informationon neurosurgery or cancer perfusions. amethod of closed-chest hypothermic perfusionin 30 dogs is reported. the authorsutilize drainage of superior and inferior cavaeby gravity. the volume of venousdrainage sometimes enhanced by transfusionsor 12.5% low molecular weight dex-tran determined the flow rate. cooling wasmaintained for quite variable periodsapparently generally to an unspecifiedesophageal temperature. perfusion time va-ried from 30 min. to 4 hr. animals withlow flows were perfused longer, had a high-er incidence of ventricular fibrillation,and a very low survival rate. eleven ani-mals survived. all had pre-cooling flowrates above 40 ml./kg./min., good flowrates during the perfusion, and only 3 hadventricular fibrillation. flow rates andsurvival were increased in animals receivinglow molecular weight dextran. four-teen of 15 animals with ventricular fibrillationwere defibrillated electrically, 8 re-gained 'adequate' cardiac function, but only 3survived. some interesting data onregional cooling of the lower half of the bodyis presented. the authors concludewithout sufficient evidence that the mostimportant factor in the mortality in hypo-thermic perfusion is the ability to maintain'a flow rate approaching the estimatednormothermic cardiac output of the animal'

Documento 712: 

hydrocephalus: changes in formation and absorptionof cerebrospinal fluid within thecerebral ventriclesformation, flow and absorption ofcerebrospinal fluid were measured in normaland progressively hydrocephalic dogs bysteady-state studies during ventricular per-fusion. the formation of cerebrospinal fluidwas found to be constant, independent ofhydrostatic pressure, and unaffected by thedevelopment of hydrocephalus. the normaldog produced 0.016 ml. cerebrospinal fluid/min. in the lateral ventricles, 0.011 ml. cere-brospinal fluid/min. in the 4th ventricle and0.20 ml. cerebrospinal fluid/min. in the sub-arachnoid space. the intraventricular forma-tion of fluid was calculated to be 0.24 ml.cerebrospinal fluid/min./gm. of choroidplexus, and 0.3x10-3 ml. cerebrospinal fluid/min./cm.2 of ependymal surface.absorption of cerebrospinal fluid wasfound to take place within the ventricles aswell as in the subarachnoid spaces. the re-sistance to absorption of cerebrospinal fluidin the normal ventricle was much higher thanin the hydrocephalic ventricle. the decreasein resistance occurred as the ventricularvolume increased and the ependyma becameflattened so that in chronic hydrocephalusthe resistance was not significantly differentthan in the normal dog. the theory of re-stricted diffusion was applied to the data tocalculate the diffusive permeabilities of crea-tinine and urea, and from this the mean poreradius within the ventricle.using formation of cerebrospinal fluidand data on absorption, the hydrocephalicanimals could not be distinguished from thenormal with sufficient accuracy to suggestusing this as a clinical test. the reason forthis is that intraventricular pressure hasalways been considered as if it were constantwhen, in fact, it is changing constantly. theproblem of ventricular enlargement concernsthe ability of the craniospinal contents toadjust to and absorb the small but very rapidchanges in intracranial contents that occurwith each beat of the pulse.

			********** Consulta 7:  radioisotopes in heart scanning mainly **********

Documento 92: 

demonstration of ventricular aneurysms by radioisotope scanning . radioisotope scanning of the cardiac blood pool after the intravenous injection of i -labeled iodipamide was carried out in 14 patients with ventricular aneurysm . in 4, the aneurysm could be demonstrated on neither the anteroposterior chest roentgenogram nor the scan . in 5, theaneurysm was apparent on the radiograph, but the blood pool did not enter the area, suggesting a thrombus within the aneurysm . in 5, the aneurysm was detectable on the film and was also seen to be filled with radioactivity on the scan . presumably these findings showed that a thrombus had not yet formed . blood pool radioisotope scanning appears to be another tool in the diagnosis of ventricular aneurysm, useful alsoin demonstrating in some patients the presence or absence of an intraluminal clot within the aneurysm .

Documento 383: 

3485. measurement of the cardiac output and ventricularvolumes by radiocardiographycardiac output was measured by externalcounting after injection of radioisotopes(rihsa and erythrocytes-cr51). the resultsin 113 subjects, including 16 normals,are presented and compared with the resultsby other methods. cardiac output atrest and after exercise was compared in 65 subjects.the principle of ventricularvolume measurement by radioisotope-cardiography isdiscussed. the results ofmeasurement of the ventricular volume in 17 normalsubjects and 90 patients, andof measurement of the ventricular volume in 57 patients,are presented.

Documento 261: 

radioisotope photoscanning as a diagnostic aid in cardiovascular diseasea safe, simple method for diagnosing pericardial effusion and aneurysm .radioisotope scanning is a safe, simple, and useful method for the diagnosis of pericardial effusion and aortic aneurysm . the whole-body radiation dose, approximately 25 millirads from 300 of i 131-sodium iodipamide, is no greater than the dose received from a standard posteroanterior chest roentgenogram or a blood volume determination . there are no side effects or complications from the procedure, and it iswell tolerated by the patient . the scan can be repeated at intervals toassess progress of the disease or response to treatment . cardiovascularscanning with radioactive isotopes can be recommended as a useful and safe diagnostic tool .

Documento 189: 

detection of pericardial effusion by radioisotope heart scanning . a marked difference between the cardiac silhouette on the six-foot chest roentgenogram and the cardiac blood pool, determined by radioiso- tope scanning, has been shown to be consistent with pericardial effusionand/or thickening . it has also been observed that the cardiac blood pool is separated from the liver margin by the interposition of peri- cardial fluid and/or thickening . this separation was not demonstrated in the presence of a normal pericardium . to appreciate these features, 400 c. of radioiodinated human serum albumin and 50 c. of colloidal radiogold were used for scanning . the former outlined the blood pool and the latter demonstrated the position of the liver .

Documento 745: 

metabolism and excretion of c14-labeled bilirubin in childrenwith biliary atresiaand judson g. randolphradioactive bilirubin was injected intravenouslyinto 3 children with biliary atresia. the isotopeover a period of ten to fourteen days was recoveredprincipally in the urine. sixty per cent of the labelin the urine was found to be in the form of bili-rubin. distribution of the radioisotope was observedto be principally extravascular but not, as in otherforms of jaundice, in the same distribution as albumin.daily turnover of bilirubin was several times greaterthan the calculated normal daily production of bili-rubin. this was assumed to be due to increasedhemoglobin breakdown, confirmed by survival studiesof cr51-tagged red cells. the serum half-life of intra-venously administered radioactive bilirubin may haveuseful prognostic value in children with biliary atresia.

Documento 1018: 

metabolism and excretion of bilirubin c in experimental obstructivejaundice.bile duct ligation was carried out in a series ofrhesus monkeys. the time required for the serum bilirubinto stop rising and achieve a relatively stable level,and the average serum bilirubin reached, paralleled closelythat seen clinically. after the serum bilirubin levelshad stopped rising and a 'steady state' had been reached,radioactive bilirubin was injected i.v. the radioisotope wasdistributed principally extravascularly and not in the sameratio as albumin, as in other forms of jaundice. daily turnoverof bilirubin was found to be double that anticipatedfrom normal hb breakdown, suggesting increased bilirubinproduction in obstructive jaundice. in animals followed for2 wk nearly 80% of injected radioactivity was excreted in theurine, indicating that in obstructive jaundice the kidneytakes over entirely from the liver the function of bilirubinexcretion.

Documento 75: 

postural changes in blood distribution and its relation to the change incardiac output . (1) cardiac output and the blood content indices of the several parts of the body were measured in 18 subjects including patients with variousdiseases using external radioisotope counting techniques . changes in these 2 parameters induced by standing were compared with each other . (2) average changes in blood distribution produced by standing were asfollows . decrease in blood content in the /lung/ (-25 ) and in the /heart/ (-26 ) and increase in the /thigh/ (+56 ) were statistically significant . no significant change was revealed in the /head/, /palm/, /liver/ and /abdomen/ . (3) cardiac output and stroke volume decreased by standing in most of the cases . recent data were added to those reported previously and weretreated statistically . average decrease in cardiac output was -13 in 6 control cases, -35 in 16 cases with neurocirculatory asthenia and -35 in10 cases with hyperthyroidism . the difference was significant between control and neurocirculatory asthenia . standing induced a substantial increase in cardiac output in a case of idiopathic nodal rhythm, although there remains a doubt whether it is the ordinary response in this disease . (4) significant linear correlation was revealed between per cent change of blood content in the /thigh/ or in the /lung/ and that of cardiac output or stroke volume induced by standing . minimal blood shift was observed when the latter was extreme, and vice versa . this implies as follows.. reactivity of the heart might be influenced by posture, and transmural pressure of veins and or capillaries is probablyadjusted, as in arterioles, to compensate for changes in cardiac output

			********** Consulta 8:  the effects of drugs on **********

			********** Consulta 9:  the use of induced hypothermia **********

			********** Consulta 10:  neoplasm immunology **********

Documento 532: 

2570. treatment of canine neoplasms with autogenous vaccinial preparationsinbred mice with transplantable sarcomaand carcinoma were treated with im-plants of their tumours which had beengrown in strains of mice normally resistantto the tumours. complete regression oftransplantable tumours was noted in 22%of the treated mice and 78% had lifespans double that of untreated controls.one dog with spontaneous scirrhousmammary carcinoma and another withlymphosarcoma were treated with implantsof their own tumours after growth incortisone-treated mice. regression of thespontaneous neoplasms followed in bothcases. it is suggested that growth of aneoplasm in a foreign host alters the mole-cular structure of the neoplasm, making itantigenic when returned to the originalhost. antigens produced are also effectiveagainst the original lesions.

Documento 534: 

1368. immunologic competence and induction of neoplasms bypolyoma virusthymectomy at 3 days of age in severalinbred strains of mice and in an f1 hybridresulted in a strikingly increased frequencyof neoplasms following infection withpolyoma virus. age susceptibility was extendedto at least 30 days of age in highlyresistant c57bl mice. the usual stigmataassociated with thymectomy at birth werenot found in the 3-day thymectomized mice.nonetheless the methods used to restoreimmunologically deficient thymectomizedneonates were also effective in restoringthe capacity to resist polyoma virus tumorinduction: adult syngeneic spleen cells,thymus tissue in millipore diffusion chambersand syngeneic thymus grafts. growthcurves of polyoma virus in kidney, salivaryglands and liver were quite similar inthymectomized and intact litter mates.hemagglutination-inhibition antibodies deter-mined periodically up to 30 days afterinfection were also similar in both groups.these results are discussed in terms ofa concept involving virus-specific 'tumor'antigens and the immunologic status of the animal.

Documento 702: 

hydrocephalus due to unrecognized cerebellarastrocytoma treated by ventriculoatrialshunt for four yearsa case of a 9-year-old girl is presented in whom prolonged palliation of signsof increased intracranial pressure, presumed to be due to aqueductalobstruction, was achieved by means of a ventriculoatrial shunt. four yearsafter placement of the shunt, signs of a cerebellar mass became apparent.the neoplasm, a cystic astrocytoma, was subsequently totally resected andthe shunt was removed. air studies demonstrating diminution of ventricularsize within this four year period are compared.

Documento 234: 

cortisone and atypical pulmonary /epithelial/ hyperplasia further studies including electron microscopy, tissue culture, animal transplantation and long term observations . previous work in rabbits showed that there was a proliferation of cells within pulmonary alveoli following intratracheal injection of nitric acid and that the proliferation was greatly enhanced by the administration of cortisone to the animals . electron microscopic observations indicated that these were morphologically large alveolar lining cells . tissue culture studies of damaged and normal lung with and without cortisone showed no evidence for a direct effect of the drug on the proliferation of these cells . this observation, together with the knowledge that fibrosis was delayed in the cortisone treated animals, support the thesis that the cortisone effect is an indirect one . transplantation of damaged lung tissue to hamster cheek pouch failed to reveal evidence of growth . within the period of observation (99 to 420 days) there was evidence that the proliferation subsided considerably and no neoplasms developed

Documento 775: 

management of advanced endometrialadenocarcinoma with medroxyprogesteroneacetatea basis for progestin therapy for patientswith advanced endometrial adenocarcinomais presented. the criteria for selection ofpatients for hormone therapy and the sched-ule of administration of medroxyprogester-one (provera) is discussed. evaluation ofpatients for objective changes only, i.e., byvisual, palpable, histologic, or roentgeno-logic means, revealed complete or partialremission with significant palliation in 8 of20 patients (40 per cent). response to me-droxyprogesterone therapy is apparently re-lated to degree of differentiation of the pri-mary neoplasm, the well-differentiated le-sions being more responsive. documentationof tumor effect by serial biopsies duringtreatment provides an index to the histologicchanges this progestin produces in suscep-tible cases. the effects of therapy uponserial urinary hormone excretion rates isdocumented in several patients.on the basis of our experience, the treat-ment of patients with advanced endometrialadenocarcinoma with the potent progestinmedroxyprogesterone seems justified.

Documento 965: 

posterior scalloping of vertebral bodies in uncontrolled hydrocephalus.two cases of extensive posterior scallopingof the vertebral bodies are presentedin men aged 17 and 23 years, havinglong-standing hydrocephalus. twoadditional cases with scalloping of only onelumbar vertebra when partially controlledhydrocephalus has been present for a shortertime are also noted. no previousassociation between these entities has beenrecorded. it is supposed that the increasedintraspinal pressure which must havebeen present in the first 2 patients formany years, was present near the time ofclosure of the epiphysis at the junction ofthe arch and the bodies and caused not onlywidening of the spinal canal but alsoexcavation of the vertebral bodies. scallopingof vertebral bodies has been describedin: (1) neoplasms (neurofibromas,meningiomas, gliomas, hemangio-endotheliomas,hemangiomas, lipomas): (2) intraspinalcysts (intradural arachnoid cysts,tarlov's perineural cysts, thoracic extraduralcysts in kyphosis dorsalis juvenilis):(3) congenital anomalies of the spine andcord (fusion defects, myelodysplasia,hydromyelia, absence of a single vertebralpedicle, meningoceles): and(4) neurofibromatosis (with or without a thoracic meningocele).

Documento 214: 

studies in sickle cell anemia xxi. clinico-pathological aspects of neurological manifestations . neurologic manifestations are frequent in patients who have sickle cell disease . these manifestations may be the earliest presenting signsand symptoms and they are so variable that the patient may be erroneously diagnosed as having conditions such as meningitis, poliomyelitis, subdural hematoma, neoplasm, subarachnoid hemorrhage, lead encephalitis, subacute bacterial endocarditis, and congenital malformations of the brain . furthermore, development of these manifestations cannot be predicted on the basis of the type of crisis involved . prognosis following neurological involvement is unpredictable, but recurrent episodes, together with abnormal electroencephalographic readings suggest a poor outcome . such patients die or are the victims of rather severe neurological deficits . neurological examination of these patients suggests diffuse involvement of the cerebral hemispheres . examination of the pathological material, however, often fails to reveal thromboses . the striking findings are infarcts in the white matter and perivascular hemorrhages . the thesis that the abnormal neurological findings in these patients are actually due to sickle cell disease is supported by the fact that all such symptoms appear in association with clinical circumstances known to induce sickling . these include surgery and anesthesia, fever and infection .

			********** Consulta 11:  blood or urinary steroids in **********

Documento 975: 

filariasis in its relation to a a bo, mn, kell, duffy and rhesus bloodgroups and secretor factor.603 filariasis patients have been studied fora a bo blood groups; 281 for duffy,kell and rhesus blood groups; 178 for secretorfactor; and 503 for mn blood groups,to find out if there is any association betweenfilariasis and these blood groups.no association, whatsoever, has been foundbetween the blood groups studied andfilariasis.

Documento 1024: 

some bone lesions in the course of blood diseases with special referenceto the formation of bony callus and to the treatment of fractures inpatients suffering from blood diseases.after some preliminary remarks on the embryologyand physiology of the bonemarrow and on the mechanism of coagulationof the blood, the authors pass on toa consideration of the genesis of bony callus,and the treatment of fractures inpatients suffering from blood diseases. anaccount is given on the basis of some examplesof pathological fractures, and alsoof some traumatic fractures in subjectsaffected by various kinds of blood diseasessuch as solitary myeloma, polyosteoticplasmocytoma, waldenstroem's syndrome,the coagulopathic syndromefrom a structural defect of the fibrin coagulum,and hemophilia. fractures in patientswith blood diseases are characterizedby an abnormal course, and, for aneffecient cure, it is necessary to make anaccurate diagnosis with regard to thepre-existing blood diseases and to re-establishhemostasis when this has beenchanged, to prevent hemorrhages, and to correctany plasma defect that may bepresent and which are reflected in the formationof the bony callus.

Documento 52: 

blood and bone marrow damage caused by drugs . drug side effects on blood and bone marrow are briefly reviewed . theyembrace a wide variety of symptoms and pathogenetic mechanisms, and in recent years study of these effects has made important contributions to our knowledge of the immunology, biochemistry and metabolism of the blood cells .

Documento 417: 

896. studies on blood viscosity and its significance in anesthesiathe principles for measuring blood viscosityhave been discussed. although blooddoes not behave in a newtonian manner,the data obtained in in vitro measurementare useful. a modified simple method formeasuring blood viscosity relative to nor-mal saline has been described. there isessentially no difference in viscosity be-tween fresh blood and heparinized blood and between plasma and serum.viscosity varies with the quantity and nature of proteinsin plasma and the cellular concentra-tion. halothane and thiopental sodium reduceblood viscosity and seem to be indicat-ed in conditions in which there is hemoconcentrationand a tendency for red bloodcells to aggregate. cyclopropane, hypothermia,and norepinephrine tend to raiseblood viscosity and would seem to be contraindicatedwhen the microcirculation is failing.

Documento 304: 

3917. plasma free fatty acid and blood sugar levels in newborninfants and their motherssimultaneous plasma free fatty acid (ffa)and blood sugar levels were determinedfor fasting newborn infants during the first24 hours of life, for their cord bloods,and for their mothers at delivery. thefollowing observations were made. in con-trol infants the mean ffa level rose aboutthree times the cord level after birthand was accompanied by a 25% drop in themean blood sugar level. thereafter, themean blood sugar level remained relativelyconstant, but the mean ffa level variedfrom 2.5 to 3 times the cord level. therewas no significant correlation between thelength of maternal fasting prior to deliveryand the infant ffa level; there was,however, a significant negative correlationbetween the length of maternal fastingprior to delivery and the infant blood sugarlevel at 24 hours of age. high ffa levelsoccurred in the infants of obese mothersand low levels were observed in infants withdelayed respirations, in infants of preeclampticmothers, and in infants of diabeticmothers.

Documento 10: 

changes in blood glucose and non-esterified fatty acids in the foetal and newborn lamb after injection of adrenaline . changes in blood glucose and non-esterified fatty acids after intravenous adrenaline were measured in foetal, newborn and adult sheep in the foetus and immediately after birth there was very little increase in either blood glucose or non-esterified fatty acids after adrenaline . the response of blood glucose to adrenaline had reached adult levels at twenty-four hours of age . the response of non-esterifi-ed fatty acids to adrenaline increased gradually over the first week .

Documento 760: 

postnatal changes in the portal circulationduring foetal development a large portion of theoxygenated umbilical blood flows through theumbilical recess directly into both main portalbranches. accordingly, these are exposed to theumbilical blood pressure and have a wideby contrast, the trunk of the portal vein is narrowand there is probably only a small blood flow throughit from the inactive digestive tract, though thepressure in it is approximately the same as in theumbilical vein or perhaps somewhat higher.immediately after birth the liver is deprived of thesubstantial umbilical blood flow. the portalvenous pressure falls to about one-quarter of theumbilical venous pressure at birth. however thepressure gradient between the portal veins andinferior vena cava remains constant.

Documento 191: 

the occurrence of megakaryocytes in the peripheral blood of dogs . a study of megakaryocytes in buffy coat smears from 26 dogs revealed that no unusual characteristics were consistently associated with appea-rance of megakaryocytes in the peripheral blood .

Documento 80: 

rate of change of carbon dioxide tension in arterial blood, jugular venous blood and cisternal cerebrospinal fluid on carbon dioxide administration . 1. the rate of change of p in arterial blood and cisternal c.s.f., wasmeasured following 5 percent co administration in eight anaesthetized patients undergoing routine air encephalography . ventilation was maintained constant throughout the procedure by a respirator . in three of the experiments the rate of change of p in the jugular venous blood was also measured . 2. the rise in p varied between 25.7 and 14.8 mm hg . the final samples of blood and c.s.f. were taken 20-25 min after the start of co administration in five experiments . at this time the mean rise in p was65.9 (maximum range 68.1-61.6 percent) of the rise in p . in the remaining three experiments the final samples were taken at 15 min when the rises in p were 53.2, 39.4 and 38.1 percent of the arterial change .3. the increases in p were 57.5, 76.2 and 76.1 percent of those in thearterial blood . the changes in p in the c.s.f. were smaller than in thejugular venous blood in all three experiments . in two of the experiments the final samples were taken 15 min after the start of co administration when the increases of p in the c.s.f. were 68.5 percent and 50 percent of those in jugular venous blood . in one experiment where the final samples were taken at 20 min the increase in p was 89 percent of the rise in p . 4. there was a delay, following the start of co administration, in therise of p in jugular venous blood and in the c.s.f . this delay was about 1 min in the jugular venous blood but in the c.s.f. it varied from1.6 to 4.2 min (mean 2.3) . 5. the rise of p in blood and c.s.f. was exponential . the rise in p in all experiments consisted of a fast component with time constants which varied between 0.2 and 0.9 min (mean 0.5) and a slow component with time constants varying between 6.7 and 14.7 (mean 11.6) . the rise in p and p consisted of only one component . the time constants for the changes in jugular venous blood were 2.1, 3.8 and 4.3 min, whilst in the c.s.f. they varied between 6.7 and 14.7 (mean 11.6) .6. it is probable that about 40 percent of the increase in ventilationfollowing co administration is due to stimulation of an area in the antero-lateral surface of the medulla sensitive to changes in ph or p (mitchell et al. 1963) . this area is superficial and ventilation is affected by changes in the p of the overlying c.s.f . it can be predicted from our experiments that the rise in p on co administration will take some 30 min to be complete . this may explain the slow rise inventilation on co breathing when compared with the rate of rise of arterial and jugular venous p .

Documento 236: 

lactate and pyruvate in the brain of rats during hyperventilation . experiments on anesthetized and curarized rats under artificial ventilation show that during hyperventilation lactate and pyruvate are markedly increased both in blood and in brain . the lactate/pyruvate ratio which remains in blood the same as in control conditions, is systematically decreased in brain . during hypoxia (ventilation with 7 oxygen in nitrogen) lactate rises markedly in blood and in brain . the lactate/pyruvate ratio which is strongly increased in blood shows a small rise in brain . these observations could indicate that a differentmechanism is responsible for the rise of lactate in brain during hypoxiaand hyperventilation . the important augmentation of lactate in brain during hyperventilation can give an explanation for the delayed rise which is seen in the lactate level in cerebrospinal fluid in these conditions .

Documento 4: 

placental and cord blood lipids.. comparison in a set of double ovum twins, a stillborn and a live-born . 1. determinations of phospholipid, total and free cholesterol, triglyceride and nefa have been made on placental tissue and cord blood in a set of double ovum twins, one stillborn and one live-born . 2. similarities occurred in all fractions studied except the cord blood triglyceride and nefa levels . 3. the serum of the stillborn infant contained one-third as much triglyceride and 21/2 times as much nefa as did the live-born infant . 4. the phospholipid content and the total lipid content of the stillbirth placenta were the highest studied in this laboratory which includes determinations on 26 live births . 5. the suggestion is made that increased lipoprotein lipase activity in the cord blood may accompany intrauterine fetal death .

Documento 272: 

effects of graded hemorrhage on cardiopulmonary functions of hypothermicdogs . experiments were conducted on anesthetized dogs subjected to moderate hypothermia (28 c.) and then bled in percentages of the estimated blood volume . respiratory work was not influenced by the degree of hemorrhagepulmonary ventilation, respiratory rate and tidal volume were not influenced significantly as a result of blood withdrawal . physiologic dead space as a percentage of tidal volume increased with hemorrhage . oxygen consumption decreased as the hemorrhage was made more severe, whereas carbon dioxide production was unchanged, indicating a shift in the respiratory exchange ratio . cardiac output decreased 78 per cent from control level when 35 per cent of the estimated blood volume was withdrawn . systemic arterial pressures decreased markedly but heart rate was not changed as a result of blood withdrawal . comparison of responses to hemorrhage in hypothermia and normothermia is discussed .

Documento 75: 

postural changes in blood distribution and its relation to the change incardiac output . (1) cardiac output and the blood content indices of the several parts of the body were measured in 18 subjects including patients with variousdiseases using external radioisotope counting techniques . changes in these 2 parameters induced by standing were compared with each other . (2) average changes in blood distribution produced by standing were asfollows . decrease in blood content in the /lung/ (-25 ) and in the /heart/ (-26 ) and increase in the /thigh/ (+56 ) were statistically significant . no significant change was revealed in the /head/, /palm/, /liver/ and /abdomen/ . (3) cardiac output and stroke volume decreased by standing in most of the cases . recent data were added to those reported previously and weretreated statistically . average decrease in cardiac output was -13 in 6 control cases, -35 in 16 cases with neurocirculatory asthenia and -35 in10 cases with hyperthyroidism . the difference was significant between control and neurocirculatory asthenia . standing induced a substantial increase in cardiac output in a case of idiopathic nodal rhythm, although there remains a doubt whether it is the ordinary response in this disease . (4) significant linear correlation was revealed between per cent change of blood content in the /thigh/ or in the /lung/ and that of cardiac output or stroke volume induced by standing . minimal blood shift was observed when the latter was extreme, and vice versa . this implies as follows.. reactivity of the heart might be influenced by posture, and transmural pressure of veins and or capillaries is probablyadjusted, as in arterioles, to compensate for changes in cardiac output

Documento 289: 

3805. cisternal fluid oxygen tension in manmeasurement of cerebral oxygen tensionin man has been hampered by technical dif-ficulties. the authors present a methodin which a beckman microelectrode wasintroduced into the cisterna magna andoxygen tension measured, the hypothesisbeing that measurement of oxygen tensionin a fluid which equilibrates with theaverage cerebral oxygen tension shouldgive reliable measure of cerebral oxygentension. in their subjects, inhalation ofpure oxygen produced an increase in theoxygen tension in the cisternal fluid aswell as in the arterial blood without anyalteration of the oxygen tension in thebulb of the internal jugular vein, whereasinhalation of 95% oxygen and 5% carbondioxide increased the oxygen tension in thecisternal fluid as well as in the arterialand venous blood. 5% carbon dioxide inair produced an increase in the cisternaloxygen tension; a fall in arterial bloodpressure associated with the introductionof the suboccipital needle was accom-panied by a decrease in cisternal oxygentension which then rose simultaneously withthe increase in arterial blood pressurethat followed infusion of dextran. intravenousinjection of xanthinol niacinate inducedin all patients a more or less pronounced fallin arterial blood pressure and at thesame time the cisternal oxygen tension fell;administration of aramine was associatedwith a rise in arterial blood pressureplus a rise in cisternal oxygen tension.

Documento 189: 

detection of pericardial effusion by radioisotope heart scanning . a marked difference between the cardiac silhouette on the six-foot chest roentgenogram and the cardiac blood pool, determined by radioiso- tope scanning, has been shown to be consistent with pericardial effusionand/or thickening . it has also been observed that the cardiac blood pool is separated from the liver margin by the interposition of peri- cardial fluid and/or thickening . this separation was not demonstrated in the presence of a normal pericardium . to appreciate these features, 400 c. of radioiodinated human serum albumin and 50 c. of colloidal radiogold were used for scanning . the former outlined the blood pool and the latter demonstrated the position of the liver .

Documento 64: 

the meaning of ph at low temperatures during extra-corporeal circulationa review of the temperature gradients occurring during profound hypothermia is made in regard to acid base changes in general, and to phreadings in particular . it is concluded that terms such as 'body', 'mean', 'average' and 'core' temperature should be discarded and that when a temperature is quoted it should be referred to the site at which it was measured . the main circumstances in which blood ph is measured at a temperature different from that at which the blood is equilibrated with respiratory gases are reviewed by describing the changes which occur during tonometry experiments . in this way fundamental changes can be understood before considering the more complicated sequences of events taking place in the living body . the alterations that occur in the concentrations of protein and bicarbonate ion when whole blood is cooled are reviewed, together with their influence on 'correction factors' . the reasons why these factors should not be applied to blood when the living body is undergoing hypothermia involving the use of an extra-corporeal circulation are discussed . examples of the numerical values for blood ph during the two main methods for producing profound hypothermia, one using autogenous lung perfusion and the other a pump-oxygenator are given, with reference to the influence of pco2 upon these values . the existing methods of acid-base measurement appear to be sufficiently accurate to reflect the metabolic component during profoundhypothermia .

Documento 92: 

demonstration of ventricular aneurysms by radioisotope scanning . radioisotope scanning of the cardiac blood pool after the intravenous injection of i -labeled iodipamide was carried out in 14 patients with ventricular aneurysm . in 4, the aneurysm could be demonstrated on neither the anteroposterior chest roentgenogram nor the scan . in 5, theaneurysm was apparent on the radiograph, but the blood pool did not enter the area, suggesting a thrombus within the aneurysm . in 5, the aneurysm was detectable on the film and was also seen to be filled with radioactivity on the scan . presumably these findings showed that a thrombus had not yet formed . blood pool radioisotope scanning appears to be another tool in the diagnosis of ventricular aneurysm, useful alsoin demonstrating in some patients the presence or absence of an intraluminal clot within the aneurysm .

Documento 386: 

4160. clinical applications of quantitative radiocardiography. i.results in normal subjects and changes with agea technique is described for routine determinationsat the bedside of blood volume,cardiac output and pulmonary blood volume by meansof the method of quantitativeradiocardiography. the instrumentation is simple,the technique is easy to performand causes little trouble to the patients, only oneinjection of about 50 uc of rihsabeing needed. thirty-nine patients aged 17-83 yr.,free of cardiovascular or re-spiratory disorders, were studied. the resultsobtained are in close agreement withprevious reports. only the cardiac index showed asignificant decrease with age,while the reduction of blood volume and of pulmonaryblood volume was slight. a closestatistical correlation was found between pbv and sv,and was interpreted as adependence of pbv on sv.

Documento 648: 

chromosome changes in human diploid-cell cultures infectedwith mycoplasmathis communication shows that mycoplasma may alsochange cell chromosomes, and therefore emphasizes theneed for caution in interpreting experimental resultswithout adequately testing for the presenceof mycoplasma. chromosome damage similarto that described here has been induced byviruses in cell cultures and in blood cul-tures. chromosomal abnormalities havealso been reported in blood cultures and bonemarrow from leukaemic patients.

Documento 237: 

cisternal fluid oxygen tension in man . using a beckman micro-oxygen-electrode we have studied the oxygen tension simultaneously in the cisterna magna, the internal jugular vein and in arterial blood under various conditions . the results suggest that the cisternal oxygen tension to some degree reflects the average oxygen tension of the surrounding brain tissue and besides reflecting the available free oxygen to the brain it registrates changes of short duration in the cerebral blood flow .

Documento 389: 

2717. the value of quantitative radiocardiography in the studyof hemodynamicssix normal subjects and 7 patients with mitralstenosis were studied. quantitativeradiocardiographic investigations (rihsa) wereperformed according to donato'smethod. the stroke volume as well as the cardiacoutput were found to be decreasedin mitral stenosis, the right ventricular evacuationratio diminished, and the pul-monary circulation time prolonged. the resultspertaining to diastolic right ventricu-lar capacity, right ventricular resting blood volumeand pulmonary blood volumeproved inconclusive.

Documento 544: 

effets de la carence potassiquechez le rat sur le squelette,le cholesterol plasmatiquel'histologie des surrenalesr. habib, j. lefebvre et p. royerpotassium deficiency in the male rat at the time of weaning,provokes an increase in the weight of the suprarenals, anatrophy of the glomerular zone and a lipoid hypertrophy ofthe fasciculae.it causes a rise in the level of the blood cholesterol. itreduces the phosphate level in the blood and increases thephosphate in the urine.the blood calcium level is not altered but a hypocalciuria isnoted.it leads to a severe osteopathy which has been investigatedby radiography, microradiography and histological and bio-chemical study of the skeleton. the following are the charac-teristics : arrest of osseous growth, delay of maturation, arrestof chondrogenesis, formation of dense metaphyseal lines orlines of arrest, osteoporosis.these facts are discussed and compared to the analogouschanges found in the syndrome of chronic idiopathic hypo-kalaemia with hyperkaluria in the infant.

Documento 635: 

septicemia due to mycoplasma hominis type 1viola m. young, ph.d., and sheldon m. wolff, m.d.a febrile illness that followed therapeutic abortionand was accompanied by the presence ofmycoplasma hominis type 1 in the blood is described.the patient upon recovery exhibited a specificantibody response to the mycoplasma isolatedfrom the blood, as well as to another strain of thesame serotype. these findings are regarded as additionalevidence for the pathogenicity of m. hoministype 1 organisms, particularly in situations favoringtheir dissemination from the female genitaltract.

Documento 425: 

3927. studies on growth and cytomorphosisin the thymo-lympha-tic systems - with specialreference to the influence ofthe thymus and the thyroidin guinea-pigsmigratory streams of lymphocytes betweendifferent parts of the thymo-lymphaticsystem were evaluated by comparisons betweenlymphocyte populations in thoracic-duct lymph and arterial and venous blood,especially thymic venous blood. by re-cording organ weights in sham-operated andthymectomized guinea-pigs, treatedwith thyroxin or untreated, the importanceof the thymus and the thyroid for growthand regeneration in the thymo-lymphaticsystem was studied. the main results areas follows. there is a considerable venousoutput of lymphocytes with low mito-chondrial content (small lymphocytes) fromthe thymus in normal young guinea-pigs.this explains the much higher incidence ofsmall lymphocytes in blood than in tho-racic-duct lymph. neonatal thymectomycauses lymphatic hypotrophy with defi-ciency of lymphocytes and pyroninophiliccells in relation to reticular ones. bodygrowth and survival of the animals are notaffected. in the thymus, exogenousthyroxin most probably promotes differentiationof large basophilic cells to smalllymphocytes, resulting in an increased output ofsmall lymphocytes. in the lymphnodes, thyroxin promotes differentiation of largepyroninophilic cells ('transitionalcells') into immature and mature plasma cells.the effects of thyroxin on dif-ferentiation are followed by an increased growthof the thymo-lymphatic organs,characterized by an increased incidence of largebasophilic cells and increased weightof the lymphatic organs. growth of the thymus andlymph nodes precedes that ofthe red splenic pulp. this delayed splenic responseis not due to a transformationof an increased number of immigrated thymiclymphocytes, as neonatal thymectomydoes not prevent the thyroxin-stimulatedoccurrence of large basophilic cells in thered splenic pulp. the thyroxin-stimulatedgrowth of the lymphatic system is ac-companied by an increased output of largerlymphocytes through the thoracicduct, resulting in an increased number oflarger lymphocytes in the blood. inpostnatally thymectomized animals, having anormal (or above normal) amount ofcirculating small lymphocytes, thyroxin producesa drastic decrease in the number ofsmall blood lymphocytes, indicating a decreaseddelivery and/or increased disappear-ance of these cells to and from the blood, respectively.this decrease in number of smalllymphocytes is not seen in sham-operated animals.as judged by studies of organweights, the thyroxin-stimulated growth andregeneration of the lymphatic tissueare influenced antagonistically by thymectomyand synergistically by local factorsin involuted tissue.

Documento 292: 

3230. cerebral hemodynamics, blood gases, and electrolytesduring breath-holding and the valsalva maneuvercontinuous recordings of arterial andinternal jugular blood oxygen tension, oxy-gen saturation, carbon dioxide tension,ph, sodium and potassium, together withpeco2, blood pressure, andelectroencephalogram were obtained to compare theeffects of inspiratory and expiratorybreath-holding and the valsalva maneuver onthe cerebral circulation and cerebraloxygen availability in man. during the inter-val of tolerated breath-holding for69 seconds or less, jugular venous oxygen tensionwas increased owing to increasedcerebral blood flow resulting from an increaseof arterial carbon dioxide tension.there was a statistically significant correlationbetween changes in jpo2 and paco2,which proved to be more or less linear forboth increases and decreases of paco2 4 mm.above and below control levels. nothreshold was found for changes in paco2altering effective cerebral perfusion andcerebral venous po2, extremely smallchanges in paco2 (less than 1 mm. hg)altered cerebral oxygen availability within10 to 20 seconds. during the valsalvamaneuver a consistent reduction of jugularoxygen tension was found associatedwith the sudden fall in arterial bloodpressure and reduction of arterial carbondioxide tension. the rapid changes incerebral hemodynamics and cerebral oxy-gen availability during the procedureare briefly discussed.

Documento 437: 

175. lysozyme in bonemarrow and periph-eral blood cellsby means of an indirecthistochemical technique,the intracellular lysozyme ofthe formed elements of theperipheral blood and bone marrowwas estimated. evi-dence is presented that monocytes,as well as matureneutrophils and their precursorsextending back to theprogranulocyte, contain significantamounts of this en-zyme. a rare mature eosinophildemonstrated a traceof lysozyme activity. there wasno evidence of lyso-zyme activity in basophils,erythrocytes, megakaryo-cytes, platelets, plasmacells, tissue mast cells orbone marrowreticuloendothelial cells.

Documento 258: 

the determinants of cerebrospinal fluid po2 the effects of oxygen and carbon dioxide breathing in patients with chronic lung disease . the lumbar cerebrospinal fluid po2 of some hypoxemic hypercapnic patients with chronic lung disease is the same as that of patients without chronic lung disease . breathing 95 oxygen with 5 carbon dioxideincreased lumbar cerebrospinal fluid po2 more than breathing 95 oxygen with 5 nitrogen . the change in cerebrospinal fluid po2 is closely related to the change in arterial pco2, and this relationship is similarto the relationship between arterial pco2 and cerebral blood flow in patients with and without hypercapnia . interpretation of these observations must be qualified by the following.. cisternal cerebrospinal fluid po2 differs from lumbar cerebrospinal fluid po2 in its response to breathing oxygen with carbon dioxide,. regulation of blood flow to the spinal cord and nerve roots is not known to be comparable to that of the brain,. and factors other than blood flow may have contributed to the changes of cerebrospinal fluid po2 .

Documento 76: 

comparative studies of the glycogen content of heart, liver and brain before and after iodine treatment and under conditions of asphyxia . blood sugar level and glycogen concentration in the heart, brain and liver of rabbits after treatment with inorganic iodine, depot insulin, iodine and insulin combined, hostacortine and hostacortine and iodine combined are being examined . a control group remains untreated . in a second test series the glycogen determination under asphyxia (the trachea is being pinched off for three minutes) is repeated . contrary to the brain the glycogen content of the heart muscle is not dependent upon the blood sugar level . after iodine treatment a loweringof the blood sugar becomes noticeable, but also an increase in heart glycogen . the liver glycogen shows greater variations . the levels achieved in these test series therefore show no significant differences during asphyxia there is a significant lowering of glycogen in all three organs . preliminary treatment with iodine succeeds in stopping the lowering of glycogen in the heart muscle and the brain . the possible causes for this phenomenon are being discussed .

Documento 436: 

172. autoradiographicstudies of lymphoidcells in blood andbone marrow of nor-mal and irradiateddogsthe migration, fate, andturnover of lymphoidcells in blood and bone marrowof 4 irradiated and 4 non-irradiated dogs were studiedby serial autoradiographywith clamping of the hind legsduring the plasma clear-ance time of h3-thymidineinjected into an anteriorvein. in irradiated dogs, theh3-thymidine injection pro-cedure was carried out duringthe early recovery phaseafter 250 r of whole-bodyx-irradiation. the results on2 irradiated and 2 normaldogs were described in de-tail. migration of lymphoidcells from blood to marrowparenchyma was confirmedin the irradiated dogs. con-clusive evidence of transformationof these cells intohemopoietic precursors was notfound. the relativenumber of large lymphoid cells,the labeling index ofthe whole population of lymphoidcells, and that of smalllymphoid cells were increasedin irradiated marrow;few initially labeled smalllymphoid cells could also beobserved. these data indicatethat the pattern of pro-liferation of lymphoid cells ischanged in irradiated re-generating bone marrow.

Documento 88: 

radiocardiography.. principles and methods . the aa show the importance of radiocardiography, as a method to evaluate the cardiac output, the ventricular volumes and the pulmonary blood volume . in this first paper, they are particulary concerned with some technical aspects, which are very important to collect data . the position of the collimator on the precordium, the injection of isotopes through a catheter, just behind the ventricle near the tricuspid valve, the selection of ratemeter constants the velocity of paper on the recorder and the way to read the area of the curve, were specially discussed . finally, they present the formula used to calculate cardiac output, ventricular volumes and pulmonary blood volumes .

Documento 880: 

the effect of growth hormone in hypothalamo-pituitarydwarfism. i. the metabolic effects of human growth hormone.human growth hormone, isolated by raben'smethod, was given in 2 to 5 mg. dailydoses over periods from 1 to 12 days to 7 patientswith pituitary-hypothalamic dwarfism.the metabolic effects were as follows:nitrogen retention with a variablereduction in blood urea. the plasma amino-acidconcentration did not alter afteri.m. injection of the hormone during fasting.an accompanying retention of intracellularcomponents, in such proportions requiredfor protoplasm formation.isotonic expansion of the extracellular compartment,without change in the plasmaelectrolyte concentrations. retention of phosphorus,sometimes a rise in plasmaphosphate; increased intestinal calcium absorption,hypercalciuria, no alterationin plasma calcium; an increase in plasma citrateand citrate urinary excretion;the calcium and phosphate retention was reversedon stopping treatment. mobilisationof fat stores with lipid catabolism: thiswas accompanied by a well markedincrease in nefa concentration for some hoursafter hormone injection in thefasting state, after a period of hypoglycaemiaand low nefa levels. a complex,biphasic action on glucose metabolism. fastingblood sugar levels are altered,as are the glycaemia in various tests such asfasting, insulin injections, tolbutamideadministration, intestinal hyperglycaemia.acceleration of intermediatemetabolism with increased blood citrateconcentrations and 24 hours urinaryexcretion of -ketoglutaric acid. in one testduring fasting the blood citrate increased4 hours after hormone injection. afteran oral load of sugar the blood citrateand -ketoglutaric acid concentrationsdid not alter. a progressive gain inweight has been found during treatment, partlyreversible on stopping treatment,correlating with the intracellular nitrogen retentionand expansion of the extracellularspace, despite mobilisation of fat reserves.

Documento 825: 

haemophilic blood cysta mongol boy of ten, a known haemophiliac, was seen in the orthopaedicdepartment of southmead hospital in may 1962 with a swelling of the left foot.the parents were aware of a steady increase in size since the swelling wasfirst noticed two months before. on examination, a cystic swelling was seen tooccupy the forefoot, the skin on the dorsum being stretched over it and adusky red in colour (fig. 1). radiographs showed destruction of the proximaltwo-thirds of the third metatarsal bone, an appearance consistent, it wasthought with destruction from within by an expanding lesion (fig. 2). thediagnosis of a haemophilic blood cyst was made.

			********** Consulta 12:  effect of azathioprine on systemic **********

Documento 585: 

growth hormone action on rat liver rnapolymerasethe effect of growth hormone on the activity of therna polymerase measured in this system is shown intable 2. it can be seen that hypophysectomy of the ratresults in decreased activity of the rna polymerase andthat the injection of 1 mg of human growth hormone intothe rat 12 h before death increased the enzyme activityboth in hypophysectomized rats and in normal rats.however, the stimulating effect of growth hormone wasonly seen in the absence of high concentrations of ammon-ium sulphate; raising the ionic strength of the assaymedium abolished the growth hormone effect. it should bementioned that addition of growth hormone in vitro in thepresence or absence of ammonium sulphate has had nosignificant effect on the labelling of the rna by thenuclear preparations.

Documento 53: 

hypothermia.. physiologic effects and clinical application . a survey of the background, physiologic effects, indications, technique and complications of hypothermia is presented . the application of this technique is straightforward and safe when used at the proper levels with the proper indications .

Documento 844: 

actinomycin d and the response to parathyroid hormoneactinomycin d inhibits the effect ofparathyroid hormone upon bone, as measuredby ca mobilization, without alteringits effects upon the renal excretion ofphosphate and ca in rats.

Documento 63: 

the effect of dehydroepiandrosterone on the dehydroxycorticosteroids in the plasms in various stages of breast cancer and mastopathy . the depressing effect of dehydroepiandrosterone on plasma corticosteroids is, on an average, shortened in advanced breast cancer (stage iv) . the lowest corticosteroid values have been found with the three groups of patients 6 hours after infusion of dehydroepiandrosterone phosphate . the effect of dehydroepiandrosterone being, still provable after 12 hours with the group suffering from mastopathy, the breast cancer group of stage iv had at this time alreadyreached the level of the initial values . the breast cancer group of stage iv had at this time already reached the level of the initial values . the breast cancer group of stage i/ii behaved intermediately . the less lasting effect of dehydroepiandrosterone is attributed to its accelerated transformation in advanced breast cancer .

Documento 949: 

the antidiuretic effect of angiotensin in diabetes insipidus.the effect of angiotensin (val-5-hypertensinii-asp- -amide)was studied in 2 children with diabetesinsipidus (a 9 yr old boy with diabetes insipidus neuro-hormonalisand a 4 yr old girl with diabetes insipidusrenalis) in whom the clearances of inulin, pah, na andurea and the osmolar and free-water clearances wereexamined. angiotensin produces a prompt antidiuresiswhich is combined with a gross decrease of the na-clearance.the osmolality of the urine is increased only slightlyand the free-water clearance does not become negative,both effects being contrary to those seen with vasopressin.the antidiuresis and antinatriuresis can be producedin salt-loaded and salt-deprived states. furosemidereverses the effects of angiotensin. the clearance ofurea is not changed by angiotensin as long as the glomerularfiltration rate remains normal.

Documento 255: 

effect of heterologous antiserum and complement on glycolysis of tumor cells . the effect of heterologous antiserum and complement on glucose metabolism of rat ascites tumor cells was examined to clarify the mechanism of the cytotoxic effect of antibody . 1. lactate-production of the target cells was inhibited by the cooperation of antiserum and complement, while no inhibition was observed when the cells were subjected to either antiserum or complementalone . the inhibition of lactate-production was observed under both acrobic and anacrobic conditions . no effect of the antiserum and complement was observed on the oxygen consumption of the cells . 2. the amount of antiserum necessary for the inhibition of lactate-production of the cells was determined in the presence of a definite amount of complement, and it was found that the degree of inhibition was not in parallel with the concentration of antiserum beyond a certain threshold . on the other hand, a parallelism was observed between the amount of complement and the rate of inhibition of lactate-production when different amounts of complement were added to a definite amount of antiserum . 3. similar inhibitory effects of the antiserum and complement on lactate-production of the cells from glucose, fructose-1, 6-diphosphate,and pyruvate suggested that the inhibition occurred toward the final step of glycolytic process of the cells .

Documento 550: 

control of idiopathic hypercalciuriathe paper discusses the causes of hypercalciuria and describes15 cases of different origins all of which presented similarlywith renal stones. the diagnosis of idiopathic hypercalciuriawas made by exclusion. the effects of dietary restriction ofcalcium, sodium bicarbonate, cortisone, sodium phosphate,sodium phytate, and cellulose phosphate were demonstrated bycalcium and phosphorus balance techniques. all were shownto have some urinary-calcium-lowering effect. finally, achlorothiazide derivative--namely, bendrofluazide--was alsodemonstrated to have a hypocalciuric effect, and the mode ofaction is discussed.

Documento 684: 

(on the erythropoietic effect of differenttissue suspensions)the stimulating effect on erythropoiesis of regenerated liver and hyper-trophic kidney tissue after partial hepatectomy and unilateral nephrectomyrespectively was studied in the rat by means of the erythrocyte count, haemo-globin determination, reticulocyte count and 59fe utilization. thereticulocyte count and 59fe utilization increased significantly after treatmentwith normal liver and renal tissue and more strongly after regenerated liverand hypertrophic kidney tissue. the same effect was seen after treatmentwith the sera of rats which had undergone partial hepatectomy or unilateralnephrectomy.

Documento 442: 

5323. systemic effects of androgenicand estrogenic hormones in advancedbreast cancerthe systemic effects of diethylstilbestrol(45 patients), testosterone propionate(48 patients), and both hormones (22 patients)were studied during the treatment(six weeks to over three months) of advancedbreast cancer in postmenopausalwomen. serious complications includedinduced hypercalcemia and fluid re-tention. physiologic effects such asurinary incontinence (diethylstilbestrol),virilization (testosterone), or nausea andvomiting did not necessitate disconti-nuance of treatment. androgenic therapystimulated erythropoiesis. observa-tions on the systemic reactions to thesehormonal agents definitely contribute tothe evaluation of sex steroid therapy.

Documento 52: 

blood and bone marrow damage caused by drugs . drug side effects on blood and bone marrow are briefly reviewed . theyembrace a wide variety of symptoms and pathogenetic mechanisms, and in recent years study of these effects has made important contributions to our knowledge of the immunology, biochemistry and metabolism of the blood cells .

Documento 551: 

effects of parathyroid hormone and other proteins in vitroon mitochondrial metabolismit is apparent that in addition to parathyroid hormone, severalnon-hormonal basic proteins stimulate mitochondrial respiration, iontransport, and atpase, but inhibit the 32pi-atp exchange reaction.thus these effects may not be so uniquely a measure of the biologicalactions of parathyroid hormone as the previous reports suggested.rasmussen et al. (1964) have also isolated from parathyroidextracts a protein that is inert in vivo but stimulates mitochondrialtransport of phosphate in vitro. they postulated that this proteinmight be yet another biologically important factor produced by para-thyroid glands. the latter speculation may not be warranted in viewof the uncertain specificity of protein effects on mitochondria. allof our tests completed to date show that the non-hormonal parathyroidproteins c1 and c2 are unrelated either biologically, immunologically,or chemically (by amino-acid analysis) to the parathyroid hormone.further rigorous studies are necessary to precisely determinewhether any effects of parathyroid hormone on mitochondria validlyreflect the mechanism of action of the hormone and whether it is soundto use the in vitro tests as bioassay tools.

Documento 597: 

effect of testosterone propionate and growth hormone ongrowth and chemical composition of muscle and othertissues in hypophysectomized male ratsthe effect of testosteronepropionate and growth hormone on thegrowth of muscle, bone, pelt, viscera andseminal vesicles was studied in hypophysectomizedmale rats. testosterone (0.1 mg/day)stimulated growth in the levator ani muscleand seminal vesicles but had no effect on theother tissues studied. growth hormone (0.1mg/day) accelerated growth in all tissuesexcept the seminal vesicles. testosterone didnot enhance the growth-promoting effect ofgrowth hormone in any tissue except thelevator ani muscle. growth hormone stimulateddeposition of myosin, sarcoplasmicproteins, collagen and alkali-soluble proteinsin the thigh muscle of hypophysectomizedrats. the composition of the muscle in treatedand control hypophysectomized rats was thesame as that in normal rats. growth hormonealso increased the collagen, keratin-clastinand globular protein content of the pelt. theeffect of growth hormone on the proteins ofmuscle and pelt was not enhanced by testosterone.testosterone given alone had no effecton the chemical composition or content of themuscle and pelt in hypophysectomized rats.

Documento 156: 

a comparison of the cytologic effects of leurosine methiodide and vinblastine in tissue culture . comparison of the degree and duration of arrest of metaphases in tissue culture cells by leurosine methiodide and vinblastine was made,. colchicine and demecolcine were included for reference purposes . all four drugs produced a similar cytologic effect, but vinblastine was mostactive and remained active for the longest period of time .

Documento 120: 

early effects of digitalis on central hemodynamics in normal subjects . the intravenous administration of lanatoside c in 7 normal subjects had the following effects.. 1. an early significant reduction of heart rate . 2. a significant transient reduction of cardiac output . 3. a significant increase of the stroke volume initially accompanied by a significant rise of the end-diastolic volume with unchanged systolic rate of emptying . the increase of end-diastolic volume seems to be related to the lengthening of the diastolic filling period . lateron, the systolic emptying rate increases, and the ventricular volumes decrease, suggesting an inotropic effect of the drug . 4. a significant increase of pulmonary blood volume, parallel to the increase of the stroke volume, suggestive of a passive relation between the two variables .

Documento 297: 

10642. the effects of antioxidants on high pressure oxygen toxicityseveral commonly used antioxidants havebeen tested for their effect against poison-ing due to high pressures of oxygen (ohp).the tests used were preconclusive pe-riod and survival time of mice at 5 atmabsolute oxygen, lung damage in rats ex-posed to 5 atm oxygen for 1 hr., and postohp paralysis in rats following deeppentobarbital-na anesthesia and ohp at 4atm for 30 min. 2,5-bis (1,1-dimethyl-propyl) hydroquinone gave excellentprotection against ohp toxicity in all tests,and several other antioxidants alsoprotected against ohp toxicity but their potencyand effectiveness varied for thedifferent criteria of oxygen poisoning tested in theexperiments.

Documento 302: 

8914. the effect of hypoxia on oxygen consumption of cerebralcortex, liver slices and of diaphragm in vitro during post-natal development of the ratoxygen consumption of slices from the liverand cerebral cortex and of the cut dia-phragm was determined in rats aged 5, 10,14, 20 and 25 days and in adult animals.under hypoxic conditions (gas phase 10%oxygen, 90% nitrogen) oxygen consumptionof liver slices and diaghragm is decreasedby about 25% in all age groups. hypoxia,however, did not affect oxygen consumptionof slices of the cortex from 5-day-oldrats and its inhibitory effect only appearedlater as the normal oxygen consumptionstarted to rise. the inhibitory effect ofhypoxia was greatest in adult animals.

Documento 179: 

bacteriophages that lyse mycobacteria and corynebacteria, and show cytopathogenic effect on tissue cultures of renal cells of cercopithecusaethiops.. a preliminary communication . bacteriophages isolated from sputum and resection specimens of pa- tients suffering from carcinoma of the lung were found to lyse coryne- bacteria and mycobacteria, and to produce a cytopathogenic effect on certain cells in tissue cultures . from the same and other patients withneoplastic disease, bacteria were isolated and described as coryne-my- cobacteria because of bacteriological features they shared with both species . these bacteria, which either were sensitive to mycobacterio- phages and corynebacteriophages or were phage-immune lysogenic bacteria,could be induced to produce lytic particles with phagolytic activity on corynebacteria and mycobacteria and a cytopathogenic effect on hela cells and on the renal cells of cercopithecus .

Documento 448: 

2366. the excretion of oestrone,pregnanediol and pregnanetriol in breastcancer patients. ii. effect of ovariectomy,ovarian irradiation and corticos-teroids.the urinary excretion of oestrone,pregnanediol and pregnanetriol was determinedin breast cancer patients at differentstages of their endocrine treatment. theresults demonstrate that corticosteroidsin substitution doses (cortisone 50 mg. dailyor prednisone 10 mg. daily, divided in 4daily doses) are very effective in depressingthe excretion of all 3 steroids in postmenopausalpatients. this is in agreement withthe clinical impression that these easily toleratedsmall doses of corticosteroids havethe same therapeutic effect as adrenalectomy inpatients with breast cancer. theresults indicate that the ovaries may contributeto the production of oestrogens formany years after the menopause, and that thisproduction is depressed by ovarianirradiation. this is in agreement with the clinicalobservation that ovarian irra-diation has a therapeutic value in postmenopausalwomen with breast cancer.

Documento 50: 

the influence of small selenite doses upon the toxic fatty degeneration of the liver . sodium selenite (10 ug/kg) manifests a lipotropic effect after toxication of the rat by tetrachlorocarbon . this effect is absent when the selenite dose is increased to 50 ug/kg . the level of the total lipides of the liver after ethionine toxication is not significantly influenced by 10 ug selenite/kg . it is increased by 50 ug selenite/kg.

Documento 269: 

late effects of regional renal hypothermia . in summary, one can safely conclude that no deleterious effects were created in dogs observed over a period of 3 years following renal ischemia of 6 hours' duration protected by hypothermia . the blood pressure failed to climb, there was no evidence of azotemia, and carefulmicroscopic studies failed to reveal histological evidence of renal, vascular or cardiac damage . renal function, as demonstrated by creatinine and pah, was preserved and there was no delay in wound healing .

Documento 577: 

acromegalythe effects of various steroid hormones on theinsulin-induced growth hormone responseand peter h. forshamthe availability of a sensitive assay for human growth hormone has madeit possible to directly measure the effects of various agents purported toalter growth patterns. acromegalic patients present a special problem both inearly diagnosis and in therapy. being able to measure growth hormone inthese patients provides an accurate index of activity and a precise measureof therapeutic effectiveness.in an attempt to determine whether a pituitary block of growth hormonesecretion is feasible in this condition, a study was made of the effects ofestrogen, androgen and glucocorticoid administration on growth hormoneresponse to a standard insulin tolerance test in a patient with active acro-megaly. in the dosage schedules used in this study, it was not possible tosuppress either basal growth hormone secretion or blunt its responsivenessto the normal physiologic stimulus of hypoglycemia.

Documento 932: 

effects of hypophysectomy and growth hormone on renal compensatoryhypertrophy in rats.the effect of hypophysectomy on renal compensatoryhypertrophy (rch) was observed in unilaterallynephrectomized rats receiving no therapy and thosereceiving replacement therapy and was compared to therch attained by non-hypophysectomized unilaterallynephrectomized rats at 2, 5, and 10 days. in the lattergroup there was an initial rapid rch seen at day 2which continued, but at a slower rate, through day 10.in the hypophysectomized group without replacementtherapy there was also an initial rch in the first 48 hrs.however, instead of the rch continuing there was aregression in kidney size at 5 days and with no subsequentchange at 10 days. in the hypophysectomized groupreceiving hormone replacement there was an initialrch comparable to the other 2 groups, but the furtherrenal enlargement at 10 days was much less than thatof the non-hypophysectomized animals. the results ofthis experiment and of other reported studies implyexistence of a renotropic factor which is not producedin the pituitary, but which requires an intact pituitaryfor full effectiveness.

Documento 678: 

the role of age and x-irradiation on kidneyfunction in the mousefemale mouse kidneys show a decline with respect to age in the ability toconcentrate the urine during a 24-hour water fast. x-irradiation early inlife has no measurable long-term effect on this process.kidney cortex slices of old female mice can concentrate p-aminohippuricacid against a concentration gradient equally as well as slices from youngmice. there is no loss in this ability by cortex slices from young or oldfemale x-irradiated mice.it is uncertain whether compensatory renal hypertrophy after unilateralnephrectomy declines with age in nonirradiated mice. x-irradiation doescause a reduction in the degree of compensatory renal hypertrophy in the agingmouse. this reduction may represent a loss in the ability of kidney cells toundergo cell division.the administration of testosterone propionate to old mice during compen-satory renal hypertrophy results in an increased hypertrophy. the increase isrelatively the same for irradiated and nonirradiated mice, indicating the lackof a long-term effect of x-irradiation to reduce the ability of a targetorgan to respond to a hormone.the over-all conclusion of this study, with respect to "radiation-inducedaging," is that x-irradiation of the female swiss mouse early in life does nothave a pronounced effect on kidney function late in life but may have a long-term effect on those processes concerned with cell division.

Documento 46: 

toxicity of inorganic selenium salts to chick embryos . the effects of selenite and selenate treatment by air cell injection on mortality and growth of 14-day chick embryos during a 64-68 hour period were studied . the ld for selenite-se was about 0.5 ppm, based onweight of the egg contents, and that for selenate-se about 1.8-2.0 ppm .growth depression was evident from these treatments, but other gross effects were not prominent . the treatment of embryos with selenite and sulfate together caused a greater mortality than treatment with selenitealone .

Documento 134: 

synergistic effects between antioxidants and selenium or vitamin e . several antioxidants when fed to chicks at relatively high levels in an experimental diet were ineffective in preventing the exudates and mortality from a combined deficiency of selenium and vitamin e . some ofthe compounds were toxic, as evidenced by sudden death or subcutaneous hemorrhages . when amounts of either selenite or a-tocopheryl acetate, which individually had little or no effect on symptoms, were given with the antioxidants signs of deficiency and mortality were prevented, and toxicity also was eliminated .

Documento 430: 

2045. the effect ofunilateral limb shield-ing on the haemopoieticresponse of theguinea-pig to gammairradiationguineapigs were exposed to150 r -irradiationwhilst approx. 1/5 of the total bonemarrow was protect-ed by shielding 2 limbs. quantitativecell counts of boththe shielded and irradiated marrowwere combined withobservations on the thymus, spleenand blood during therecovery period, and comparedwith the effects of whole-body irradiation. followingwhole-body irradiation(150 r) the thymus shows adelayed secondary cellulardepletion coinciding with amarked splenic hyperplasia.both phenomena were eliminatedby limb shielding. thelymphocytes in the irradiatedmarrow of partially shiel-ded animals continued to showboth the overshoot and thesecondary fall in numbers whichcharacterize recoveryfrom whole-body irradiation(150 r). after an initial fallin numbers of erythroid andgranulocytic precursors,the shielded marrow showeda temporary increase ingranulocytopoiesis coincidingwith an abortive phase ofgranulocytopoiesis in the irradiatedmarrow. there wasno evidence of any effective colonizationof irradiatedmarrow by cells from the shielded marrow.the signi-ficance of these findings is discussed.

Documento 863: 

the inhibition of respiration and phosphorylation in kidneymitochondria by parathyroid hormone administered in vivo.parathyroid hormone administeredin vivo to rabbitsproduced a metabolic alterationin kidney cortexmitochondria, evidenced bydiminished respiratory rate,respiratory control, and p:oratio with a series of substratesincluding pyruvate plusfumarate, succinate,ketoglutarate, malate, citrate,and isocitrate. the adenosinetriphosphate-inorganicphosphate exchange reactionrate was decreased andadenosine triphosphataseactivity was increased comparedto control mitochondria.these changes did not becomeapparent until about 12 hr.after injection, were undiminishedby 24 hr., and couldbe elicited with as little as 200usp units of hormone.under identical conditions livermitochondria were unaffected.diphospho- and triphosphopyridine nucleotidesin combination frequently elevatedthe respiration inparathyroid-treated mitochondriaclose to or above controllevels with citrate and isocitratebut not with theremaining substrates and hadno effect on respiratorycontrol with any of the substrates.the effects of thehormone could not be duplicatedby elevating and maintainingin otherwise normal rabbitsserum ca concentrationsat twice normal levelfor 6 hr. it is concludedthat the effects produced byparathyroid hormone on kidneyare multiple in nature andrelated to the ca++raising potency of the preparations.

Documento 882: 

effect of abdominal operation on glucose tolerance and serum levels ofinsulin, growth hormone, and hydrocortisone.abdominal operations of moderate severity arefollowed by high fasting blood-glucose levels and a reducedtolerance to intravenous glucose which persistsfor at least 72 hours after operation. fasting plasma-insulinlevels are raised after surgery. intravenous glucoseproduces much higher levels of serum-insulin andgrowth hormone in the immediate postoperative period.corticotrophin infusion increases the plasma-hydrocortisonelevels and reduces glucose assimilation to agreater extent than operation, but has no effect on serum-insulinor growth-hormone levels.

Documento 697: 

antidiuretic effect of hydrochlorothiazidein diabetes insipidusand ch'iuan-lu12 cases of diabetes insipiduswere studied during hydrochlorothia-zide therapy under a fixed diet. thesymptoms, blood pressure, urinaryvolume, blood and urinary electrolytes,plasma volume, electrocardiogram andhypertonic saline intravenous drip testwere compared before and after treat-ment.a daily dose of 100-150 mgbrought down the urinary volume toabout 50% of the pretreatment value.the initial antidiuretic effect was noted8 hours after medication and themaximal effect after the fourth or fifthday. owing to the kaluretic action ofthe drug, 2-4 gm of potassium salt wasalso given each day. satisfactory re-sults were obtained with dietary sodiumion at not more than 200 meq daily, butingestion of excessive table salt fre-quently diminished or even destroyedthe therapeutic effect.the physical signs, blood pres-sure and ecg were essentially un-changed and the plasma volumes werealtered after treatment. the hyper-tonic saline test was improved in someof the patients.low salt syndrome was fre-quently encountered as the therapycontinued over 1 month. but this andeven secondary failure could be pre-vented by timely use of intermittent oralternative regimen.the therapeutic mechanism,indications and side effects of the drugwere briefly discussed. the drug mightpossibly act through the mechanism ofsalt depletion, contraction of extracel-lular fluid volume and decrease of renalglomerular filtrate, and in consequenceurinary volume decreases and thirst isalleviated.

Documento 49: 

the effect of selenium on the upper respiratory passages . results are reported of examination of workers exposed to selenium, with special reference to chronic changes in the respiratory passages . the findings are the same as reported in the literature . we emphasize the occurrence of teleangiectasias on the uvula and on the posterior palatinal arcs and on the epiglotis . we describe the occurrence of the first poisoning with selenium xyde in this country . the poisoning healed within a few days under symptomatic treatment . the patient had however to be transferred into another shop owing to frequent symptoms due to toxic effect of selenium . we report also on secondary findings in examination of chronic changes and we emphasize particularly the finding of profesional selenium external otitis .

Documento 57: 

hyperglycemic coronary perfusion.. effect of hypothermia on myocardial function during cardiopulmonary bypass . in a series of 84 animal experiments hyperglycemic perfusion of the heart gave significant protection to the anoxic heart . this protection was evaluated by ventricular function and contractile force studies and was observed after aortic occlusion at 37, 28 and 10 degrees c . metabolic data revealed a considerable myocardial glucose uptake, higher coronary ph, higher po and lower pco in the glucose-perfused groups as compared to controls . a hypothesis for the protective effect may be an alteration in metabolic pathway and support of the myocardial enzyme systems associated with high glucose concentration and utilization .

Documento 443: 

3478. the effect of dehydroepiandrosteroneon the 17-hydroxycorti-costeroids in the plasma in various stagesof cancer and other diseases ofthe breastthe reducing effect of dehydroepiandrosteroneon the plasma corticosteroids ison the average shortened in advanced(stage iv) cases of breast cancer. in 3groups of patients, the lowest corticosteroidlevels were found up to 6 hr. afterinfusion of dehydroepiandrosterone-phosphate.in patients with mastopathy theeffect was still detectable 12 hr. later; in patientswith breast cancer in stage iv theinitial levels were reached at that time. incases with stages i and ii lesions, thefindings were intermediate. the shorteningis attributed to a more intensivetransformation of dehydroepiandrosterone inadvanced cases of breast cancer.

			********** Consulta 13:  bacillus subtilis phages and genetics **********

Documento 195: 

the isolation and morphology of some new bacteriophages specific for bacillus and acetobacter species . the best natural habitat for bacteriophages is probably a semi-solid medium containing actively dividing host bacteria . such conditions are provided for bacillus and acetobacter species in rotting grass and apples, respectively . the bacillus phages found included one with a large head and a contractile tail, and also a so-called killer particle,which had a 350 a head and a long contractile tail . this particle had the property of killing but not multiplying within a sensitive cell . a new morphological type of virulent bacillus phage was also isolated,. its head was oblong and the tail consisted of a short needle and a platethe one acetobacter phage found resembled coliphage t3 but was of particular interest because of the prominence of the head capsomeres andthe three-pronged tail .

Documento 147: 

autolysis of bacillus subtilis by glucose depletion . in cultures in minimal medium, rapid lysis of cells of bacillus subtilis was observed as soon as the carbon source, e.g. glucose, had been completely consumed . the cells died and ultraviolet-absorbing material was excreted in the medium . the results suggest that the cellslyse because of the presence of autolytic enzymes . in the presence of glucose the damage to the cell wall caused by these enzymes is repaired immediately .

Documento 144: 

on the mechanism of genetic recombination in transforming bacillus subtilis . the molecular fate of transforming dna in competent bacillus subtilis has been studied . the physical differentiation of transforming dna and the genetic material of recipient bacteria was effected by employing theisotopes n and p . competent bacteria labeled with n and p were allowed to incorporate n p-labeled transforming dna intracellularly . dna was isolated from these recipient cells and centrifuged in cesium chloride .analysis of drop fractions collected at equilibrium showed the presence of radioactivity in a region of density corresponding to recipient dna .material contribution from donor dna to the resident dna did not occur when genetically inert bacillus cereus dna was substituted for homologous dna . it was concluded that radioactivity appearing in the unlabeled resident dna was not the result of degradation of input ( p)dna and subsequent incorporation by normal metabolic processes . sincesingle-stranded dna of donor origin was not detected, nor was there evidence for the non-specific aggregation of donor and recipient dna, itwas concluded that the observed physical association of transforming andrecipient dna occurs as a result of genetic recombination in transformedb. subtilis .

Documento 196: 

characterization of bacillus subtilis bacteriophages . brodetsky, anna m. (university of california, los angeles), and w. r. romig . characterization of bacillus subtilis bacteriophages . j. bacteriol. 90..1655-1663. 1965.--a group of six phages, sp5, sp6, sp7, sp8, sp9, and sp13, which use the marburg strain of bacillus subtilis ashost was characterized . these phages, referred to as group 1, were examined for the following properties.. host range, plaque morphology, stability, adsorption kinetics, one-step growth characteristics, calciumrequirements, serum neutralization, thermal inactivation, and inactivation by ultraviolet irradiation . five unrelated b. subtilis phages, sp3, sp10, pbs1, sp alpha, and sp beta, were included in the studies . when first isolated, none of the group 1 phages was able to replicate efficiently on b. subtilis sb19, a mutant of the /transforming/ b. subtilis 168 . host range mutants capable of growth in sb19 were isolated for all of the group 1 phages except sp13, and are designated the /star/ phages (sp5 through sp9 ) . for characterization, sb19 was used as host for the star phages, and another b. subtilis mutant, 168b, was host for sp13 .

Documento 145: 

physical and biological studies on transforming dna . bacillus subtilis transforming dna prepared by the method described, has an average molecular weight of 11.6 million . the dna is heterogeneous, as judged by chemical composition, thermo-spectral and pyenographic properties . these properties have been used to fractionatesome of the biologically active molecules which show higher specific activities in transforming respective auxotrophs .

Documento 22: 

genetic transcription during morphogenesis . messenger rna's from bacillus subtilis undergoing sporulation, germination, or step-down transition have been characterized and compared . hybrid competition experiments indicate that these messengersare derived from distinct genetic loci . the results are consistent withthe hypothesis that differential transcription of the genome occurs during morphogenesis . the data also complement previously observed changes in morphology and enzymatic activity in sporulating bacteria .

Documento 194: 

comparison of ultraviolet sensitivity of bacillus subtilis bacteriophagespo2 and its infectious dna . deoxyribonucleic acid extracted from a clear plaque mutant of the temperate phage, spo2, was infectious when incubated with competent cultures of bacillus subtilis 168 m . the relationship between numbers of infectious centers and dna concentration was linear . the sensitivity of the infectious dna to ultraviolet light was much greater than that of the free phage when b. subtilis 168 m was used as host . acriflavin, which inhibits host cell reactivation, increased the rate of ultraviolet inactivation of the free phage so that it approachedthe inactivation rate of the phage dna . acriflavin had little effect onthe survival curves of the infectious dna . non-host reactivating mutants (hcr ) of b. subtilis 168 m were isolated . the survival curves of spo2 phage were much steeper when the hcr mutant was used as a host than those obtained when the hcr parental strain was used as a host . ultraviolet sensitivity of the phage dna was still greater than that of the free phage even when b. subtilis hcr was used as host, but the difference in sensitivity was much less than the difference obtained with b. subtilis hcr as a host . possible explanations for the greater ultraviolet sensitivity of the infectious dna are discussed .

Documento 198: 

the carrier state of bacillus subtilis infected with the transducing bacteriophage sp10 . bacteriophage sp10 may infect bacillus subtilis to form a carrier system . the infected bacteria give rise to infected organisms after sixor more successive single-colony isolations . about 60 of the spores derived from such an infected culture yield clones that produce phage, and such spores retain their ability to produce phage even after treatment with antiserum and heating at 80 . four hours' incubation of carrier spores in nutrient broth yields cultures having more than 10 infective centers per bacterium . cultivation of infected organisms in medium containing sp10 antiserum leads to loss of phage and loss of immunity to phage infection . dna with a density characteristic of viraldna can be detected in infected bacteria . extracts of infected bacteriacontain a phage-induced deoxyribonuclease activity which attacks both phage and bacterial dna in vitro . the phage-bacterial complex is therefore best described as a carrier state . the dna of the phage and of b. subtilis are chemically different . enzymatically prepared complementary virus rna has no homology with bacterial dna . the lack of homology of this transducing phage dna with the dna of its host and the failure to form a truly lysogenic relationship reinforce previous conclusions that transducing bacterial dna is incorporated into the sp10 virus particle without any recombination between viral and bacterial dna .

Documento 483: 

1451. the biosynthesis of 5-hydroxymethyldeoxyuridylic acid inbacteriophage-infected bacillus subtiliswhen phage e, which contains5-hydroxymethyluracil in its dna in place of thymine,infects b. subtilis, enzyme changesoccur in the host organism which can accountfor the synthesis of the abnormal base.deoxycytidylate deaminase increases atleast 90-fold and the product of its action,deoxyuridylic acid, is converted directlyinto the deoxynucleotide of 5-hydroxymethyluracilby a hydroxymethylase enzyme.the activity of thymidylate synthetase, which alsouses deoxyuridylic acid assubstrate, decreases rapidly after phage infection.

Documento 199: 

infectivity of dna isolated from bacillus subtilis bacteriophage, sp82 .sp82, a newly isolated bacteriophage of bacillus subtilis, is described . sp82 is closely related to sp8, but differs from sp8 in the density of its denatured dna and in its plating effciency on b. subtilisstrain sb-1 . dna isolated from this phage can be recovered in molecular weight equivalent to the amount contained in a single phage (approximately 130 x 10 daltons) . dna of this molecular weight, but not half pieces, is infective in competent b. subtilis . the response of plaque-forming ability to dna concentration suggests that four whole molecules are required to initiate an infective center . recombination studies with mixed dna's of two non-allelic temperature-sensitive mutants confirm theexistence of an obligatory co-operative infective process . a second infective procedure that utilizes extracted phage dna is described . in this system, low concentrations of wild-type dna are exposed to the cells . at these concentrations the multiple-event nature of phage dna infection precludes the formation of unaided plaques . however, by subsequently superinfecting the dna-infected cells with a temperature-sensitive mutant and plating under selective conditions, genetic rescue of the infecting dna is accomplished and detected . infective centers elicited by this /marker rescue/ phenomenon are directly proportional to dna concentration . the time of attainment of dnase resistance by phage dna infective centers that have irreversibly adsorbed dna can be measured . phage dna infective centers require at least 13 minutes to become totally dnase resistant . the reasons for thefailure of single phage dna molecules to carry out an infection are discussed in terms of a specific breakage-reunion

Documento 481: 

2565. separation of the transforming and viral deoxyribonucleic acids of atransducing bacteriophage of bacillus subtilisthe authors used the transducing b. subtilisphage ps 10 and present the fol-lowing experimental data dna isolated fromps 10 is effective for transformationof competent b. subtilis cells. ps 10 dna isdistinguishable from b. subtilis dnaby its higher density in a cs2so4 gradient andits lower thermal denaturationtemperature. the transforming activity presentin dna from ps 10 denatures ata temperature characteristic of b. subtilis dnarather than of viral dna. thetransforming activity of ps 10 dna bands in acs2so4 gradient with bacterial dna.this data indicated that bacterial dna isincorporated into phage ps 10 withoutbeing integrated in the viral dna. this incorporatedbacterial dna is involvedin transduction.

Documento 471: 

4958. the mechanism of messenger-rna replication in bacteriathe transformation of bacillus subtilissb25 his-tryp-by two linked genetic mar-kers under the action of hybrid moleculesof dna was investigated. the molecularhybrids were obtained by thermal denaturationand annealing of a mixture of twodna's, each one extracted from a singleauxotrophic strain (h25 his-and 168 tryp-).the formation of the heterozygous dnadouble helices was proved by special experi-ments. the transformation procedureexcluded dna synthesis by recipient cellsprior to the formation of enzymes forhistidine and tryptophane synthesis. it wasfound that heterozygous molecules ofdna are able to transform in these conditionsthe double auxotrophic cells to prototrophicones. this means that both strands ofthe dna double helix can serve as templatesfor the m-rna synthesis. the possi-bility of a secondary replication of m-rnaoutside the chromosome under the actionof rna-polymerases, using rna as a primer,is discussed.

Documento 478: 

438. lag period characterizing the entry of transforming deoxyribonucleic acidinto bacillus subtilisthe kinetics of appearance of transformantsas a function of time of exposure todna has been studied. a short lag periodof approximately 1 min at 37 c is evi-dent when the transformation is terminatedwith deoxyribonuclease. the length ofthis lag is independent of the genetic traittransferred. moreover, the lag is unaf-fected by transforming dna concentration,by the presence of homologous unmarkeddna, and by shearing and cross-linking ofthe transforming dna. the lag showsa strong inverse temperature dependence.the energy of activation is 13.9 kcal.the lag is abolished when the transformationis terminated by washing instead ofby addition of deoxyribonuclease. these resultsare taken to indicate an immediateadsorption of dna to cells, followed by adeoxyribonuclease-sensitive period of1 min, during which time the genetic traitis entering the cell. these results makefeasible an investigation of the configurationassumed by the dna molecule duringentry into the cell.

Documento 146: 

comparison of mutation and inactivation rates induced in bacteriophage and transforming dna by various mutagens . inactivation and mutation rates were measured for t4 phages and bacillus subtilis transforming dna treated by low ph, nitrous acid, or hydroxylamine at different temperatures . the frequency of mutants increased linearly with time for all three agents, whereas the logarithmof survival gave a linear plot only for nitrous acid and low ph . an arrhenius plot showed the same slopes for both inactivation and mutationrates after treatment with low ph or nitrous acid,. for the latter agentthe slope remained unaltered even when the dna was treated in the denaturated state . in contrast, mutation rates obtained after the exposure to hydroxylamine differed greatly for native or denatured dna, phage t4 being intermediate . treatment by low ph or nitrous acid interrupted the genetic linkage between tryptophan and histidine, the interrupting hits being about 1/3 as frequent as lethal hits, independent of the temperature .

Documento 476: 

1361. the mechanism of histidase induction and formation in bacillus subtilisthe role of the inducer, l-histidine, in thesynthesis of histidase (l-histidine am-monia lyase) in b. subtilis was investigated.it was found that induced cells poisonedwith actinomycin, an inhibitor of rna synthesis,lose their capacity for the forma-tion of a protein precursor of histidase at a ratewhich is independent of the presenceor absence of the inducer. these results showthat the inducer does not increasethe intracellular level of histidase-specificmessenger rna by preventing the des-truction of the major portion of this material,the fraction that is engaged in pro-tein synthesis. the possibility has not beenexcluded that the inducer exerts itseffect by bringing about the stabilization ofthe messenger rna that is still attachedto dna or has not yet become attached toribosomes. alternatively, the inducer mayactually stimulate the synthesis ofhistidase-specific messenger rna. the conver-sion of the precursor to active enzymeappears to involve polymerization of mono-mers, rather than the release ofribosome-bound inactive enzyme.

Documento 482: 

2529. repair of damage induced by a monofunctional alkylating agent in atransformable, ultraviolet-sensitive strain of bacillus subtilisa uv sensitive, transformable strain ofb. subtilis (uvr-) was unable to carry outhost cell reactivation of the virulentbacteriophage spo1. the ratio of the slopes(kuvr-/kuvr+) of the uv inactivation curveswas 6-8 for cells or for whole phage, and 2for indole+ transforming dna or forspo1 phage dna measured in a transformingsystem. whole phage inactivated withnitrogen mustard showed greater survival onuvr+ cells than on uvr-; there was no suchdifference for whole phage inactivated withmethyl methanesulfonate. whole uvr+ cellsrecovered from uv induced damage, asdetermined by an increase in extractabletransforming activity during a period ofincubation in which net dna synthesis didnot occur. uvr- cells were unable to reco-ver from uv induced damage but they didrecover from methyl methanesulfonateinduced damage in similar experiments.density labeled (h2n15) methyl methanesul-fonate treated uvr+ cells incubated in (h1n14)medium containing (h3) thymidine show-ed a 3-fold increase in extractable transformingactivity, with no formation of newdna molecules as determined by pyknometricanalysis. the repair of damage in-duced by uv irradiation differs by at least onestep from the repair of damage in-duced by methyl methanesulfonate.

Documento 472: 

2567. the molecular basis of histidase induction in bacillus subtilisbacillus subtilis growing at 37 onglutamate, as only carbon source, is inducedto form histidase by l-histidine. thisenzyme, converting histidine to urocanicacid, was isolated in a purified form.a highly sensitive and convenient assay forthe induced enzyme is described andapplied to show that histidase appears in thecell 5 min. after addition of the inducer.histidase-synthesizing capacity appearsafter 2 min. and decays exponentially afteraddition of actinomycin (an inhibitorof dna-dependent rna synthesis). thehalf-time value of histidase-synthesizingcapacity of 2.4 is high, compared with thehalf-time value of messenger rna.the histidase formation after addition ofactinomycin was not only due to proteinsynthesis directed by accumulated m-rnabut also by conversion of an enzymatical-ly inactive protein, present on the momentof actinomycin addition and product ofthe specific m-rna, to the active enzyme.the existence of this enzyme pre-cursor was shown by means of experimentsperformed in the presence of chlor-amphenicof. finally, numerical values forthe steady state of histidase synthesis,reached 9 min. after addition of the inducer,are calculated, on the basis of ki-netics of histidase synthetic capacity, precursorand enzyme formation the cellcontains sufficient precursor to formapproximately 100 molecules of histidase.the cell produces approximately 50molecules histidase per min. the cell ac-quires and loses, every minute, thecapacity to make 15 molecules of histidaseper minute. the maximal enzymelevel is 15,000 molecules per cell.

Documento 197: 

transduction in bacillus subtilis . (i) comparative examinations have shown that the temperate subtilis phages can be divided into two groups . b. subtilis strain nrs 231 was an adequate common host sensitive to all the examined temperate phages .owing to certain technical advantages this strain was found suitable for the titration subtilis phages . (ii) some cultural differences have been revealed among substrains of b. subtilis 168 ind auxotrophs maintained in various laboratories . cells in one of these cultures were partly capable and partly incapable of using ammonia . ammonia assimilation was transducible to ammonia negative bacteria . (iii) after mitomycin c or ultraviolet ray induction the examined b. subtilis strains liberated /bacteriocin/-like principles . this finding is probably analogous to that of seaman et al. concerning pbsx defectivephages . on the basis of bacteriocin production the examined strains were divided into two groups . (iv) several temperate phages isolated in our laboratory were presumably identical with phage pbs 1 . phage sp 10 differed from these agents both in antigenic structure and in host range . (v) transduction by some lysates of pbs 1-type phages was observed at frequencies of the order of 10 . considerably more and less effective phage materials were yielded by some lysogenic transductants . thus transducing phages active in the order of 10 were prepared . (vi) transduction frequency, in addition to the properties of the phage, was influenced by the physiological condition of bacteria . (vii) transduction of indole and histidine loci was studied by use of his derivatives of strain 168 ind .

Documento 473: 

2542. symposium on the fine structure and replication of bacteria and theirparts. ii. bacterial cytoplasmcomparison of the fine structure of thecytoplasm of the bacterial cell with that ofthe 'cell in general' reveals importantdifferences leading to the conclusion that, inthe bacterial cytoplasm, there is littledifferentiation into separate functional en-tities. there is no nuclear membrane, andfine fibrils appear to extend from the nucleo-plasm into the cytoplasm where they mayexpand in all directions. the cytoplasm is notnecessarily intersected by membranousprofiles of special configuration, as is borneout by e. coli b and other gram-negativeorganisms. when membranous profilesof special configuration are present, asin the gram-positive b. subtilis, thesedo not appear differentiated into clearlydefinable endoplasmic reticulum, golgisubstance, microbodies, etc., and mitochondria.as for kinetosomes, the presenceof centrioles is perhaps not very likely. theexperiments in which tellurite is re-duced in the cells suggest that there arestructures at the base of the flagella withreductive capacity. however, upon applicationof the tetranitro-blue tetrazoliumtechnic to b. subtilis, these are not stained.they are presumably identical withbasal granules. the membranous structuresin b. subtilis are called chondrioidsby the author because probably one of theirfunctions is that they are the sites ofthe respiratory enzyme chain. in thegram-negative p. vulgaris, the probable siteof the respiratory chain has a structurevery different from that in the bacillus; itis not clear whether membranes areinvolved in their structure. morphologically,even in b. subtilis chondrioids differfundamentally from the mitochondria in thatthey are not built up from compositemembranes, they are extensions of the plasmamembrane, and they may not be completelyclosed systems. regarding this lastpoint, it was observed that chondrioids maypossibly stand in open connection withthe cell's environment, since its lumen is notseparated from the cell wall by aplasma membrane. although as yet nothing isknown about this, it does not seem tobe precluded that these membranous organellesmay function also as intracellulartransport systems. contrary to porter's ideasabout er, the chondrioids are notextensions of a nuclear envelope, but of theplasma membrane. on the other hand,they are in the nuclear area, in direct contactwith the nucleoplasm, and therefore,perhaps, they need not carry in their interiorsome dna, as is now becoming knownfor ordinary mitochondria. the chromatophorevesicle is of a simple structure andin connection with the plasma membrane. it iscovered by a single membrane andthus resembles the granum disc, but it is muchsmaller. in tissue cells, an im-portant function of the er is the support of proteinsynthesis by ribosomes boundto their surfaces. evidence is now accumulatingthat the active complexes for poly-peptide synthesis in bacteria are also membrane-boundand are series of 70s ribo-somes using the same messenger rna molecule.it remains a contradictory situ-ation that the particles obtained here through releaseof cytoplasm from protoplastsin diluted, rather crude fixing media, and identifiedas ribosomes, could not berecognized as such in thin sections of the ryter-kellenbergerfixed protoplasts.this point is much in need of clarification. buteven if the cytoplasm in the thinsections of the protoplasts is in a state ofdispersion brought about artificially, itis still apparent from the various micrographsthat basically the cytoplasm is anetwork of presumably linear arrays, with manyinterconnections due to fibrillarsystems. fibrils from the nucleoplasm penetratedeeply into the cytoplasm. thepresence of fine fibrils of various thicknesses,electron densities, and orientationsmakes high-resolution study of the cytoplasmicdetails an intriguing prospect fromwhich much fundamental information can begained. the organizational pattern onthe ultrastructural level in bacteria revealsfundamental similarities and divergen-cies from that in the 'cell in general'.

			********** Consulta 14:  renal amyloidosis as a complication **********

Documento 26: 

renal amyloidosis.. a biopsy study . the relationship of the amount of amyloid deposition in the kidney to the clinical picture is reviewed in 14 cases of renal amyloidosis diagnosed by renal biopsy . the large percentage of patients who had thenephrotic syndrome (11 patients) probably reflects the criteria for renal biopsy at this institution . the etiology of the amyloid deposition did not seem to be clearly correlated with either the amount of amyloid deposition in the kidney or the severity of the clinical renal disease . all patients had deposits in the glomerulus, and the heavier the deposition the severer the renal disease . of 7 patients whohad biopsy of the bone marrow, all had abnormal types or numbers of plasma cells . the age range in primary amyloidosis appeared to be aboutthe same as that in amyloidosis secondary to myeloma . amyloidosis should be suspected in patients with proteinuria, the nephrotic syndrome, or renal failure .

Documento 934: 

some speculations on the nature and significance of developmentallysmall kidneys (renal hypoplasia).renal hypoplasia may take several forms.among these the best known is perhapsrenal dysplasia in which the parenchymais maldeveloped. other forms of hypoplasiain which the renal parenchyma is normallyformed but merely diminished in amount,do exist and may have severe clinicalconsequences. the finding at postmortemexamination of anatomically small kidneysin children who suffered excessive orunexplained dehydration has prompted thethought that renal tubular insufficiency mayresult from renal hypoplasia.

Documento 269: 

late effects of regional renal hypothermia . in summary, one can safely conclude that no deleterious effects were created in dogs observed over a period of 3 years following renal ischemia of 6 hours' duration protected by hypothermia . the blood pressure failed to climb, there was no evidence of azotemia, and carefulmicroscopic studies failed to reveal histological evidence of renal, vascular or cardiac damage . renal function, as demonstrated by creatinine and pah, was preserved and there was no delay in wound healing .

Documento 23: 

renal amyloidosis a clinicopathological study . the clinical and histopathological data from 40 cases of renal amyloidosis diagnosed by percutaneous renal biopsy are presented . twenty-two cases were labelled as 'secondary' amyloidosis, as definiteaetiological factors responsible for renal amyloidosis could be discovered . the predisposing disease states leading to amyloid depositsin the kidney in the order of frequency were fibrocaseous pulmonary tuberculosis, bronchiectasis, lung abscess, and ileocaecal tuberculosis five cases were labelled as suspected 'primary' amyloidosis as a definite evidence of the predisposing disease could not be obtained although the skiagram of chest revealed minimal healed foci . no cause could be determined in thirteen cases, which were, therefore, labelled as 'primary' amyloidosis . albuminuria was a constant feature in all the cases and 32 cases presented as nephrotic syndrome . the rest of the cases presented with hypertension or renal failure in addition to albuminuria . the ancillary procedure, viz., congo-red test, gingival and liver biopsies proved to be of limited value in the diagnosis of renal amyloidosis . the importance of percutaneous renal biopsy as a diagnostic tool has been emphasised .

Documento 371: 

897. chronic renal diseases and pregnancy a reviewa review is given of the reciprocal relationships between chronic renal diseaseand pregnancy. after a short review of the most important changes in renalfunction due to normal pregnancy, the diagnosis of chronic renal disease isdiscussed. subsequently, the following complications of pregnancy arediscussed individually chronic pyelonephritis, chronic glomerulonephritis,lupus erythematosus, the nephrotic syndrome, diabetic nephropathy andpolycystic disease of the kidney. the paper is concluded by a discussion onthe influence of pregnancy on the different renal affections.

Documento 931: 

hypertensive vascular disease produced by homologous renin.administration of rat renin to uninephrectomizedrats reproduced most, if not all,the changes (hypertension, vascular disease,hypertrophy of the zona glomerulosaof the adrenals) found after partial constrictionof the renal artery. this is takenas evidence that the renal pressor systemplays a major role in the pathogenesisof renal hypertension.

Documento 940: 

the influence of thyroid hormone on renal function during the courseof compensatory hypertrophy.during the course of compensatory hypertrophyof the kidney, glomerular filtrationand renal plasma flow increased to a lessextent in thyroidectomized animals thanin control animals. the secretory capacityof the renal tubules of thyroidectomizedanimals increased insignificantly duringcompensatory hypertrophy, but increasedmarkedly after administration of thyroid hormone.

Documento 273: 

hypothermia in management of acute renal failure . 1. prolonged hypothermia begun in the period immediately following theinfusion of epinephrine into the renal artery appears to give partial protection against renal damage . 2. shorter periods of hypothermia do not appear to be beneficial . 3. prolonged hypothermia at 28 to 30 c. has a mortality rate of 50 percentto 60 percent .

Documento 676: 

radiation effects renal enlargement in the mousethree hours following unilateralnephrectomy weanling female cf-1 mice weresubjected to local abdominal or total bodyexposure to either 500 or 600 r. othergroups were given 1350 r to half the abdomenwith and without prior nephrectomy. signifi-cant decreases in renal weight gain comparedto controls were obtained in the 600 r totalbody group and in the locally irradiated ani-mals given 1350 r. when the renal weightchanges are compared on the basis of theratio of renal weight to body weight in percent, an increase from .64% to .95% is seenin animals subjected to nephrectomy alone.the final value in all of the irradiated andnephrectomized groups was similar, rangingfrom .93% to 1.0%. the results suggest thatirradiation in these dose ranges does notexert a direct inhibitory effect on renal weightincrease but it limits body weight gain whichinfluences kidney weight.

Documento 677: 

renal hyperplasia and neoplasiain rats given dimethylnitrosaminemultiple foci of hyperplasia and neoplasia were induced in the kidneyof rats that had been dosed orally with dimethylnitrosamine. the younger ratsand the male sex had a greater incidence of renal tumors. the hyperplasticor neoplastic lesions were classified into two groups on the basis of theirhistogenesis, namely that of tubular epithelial origin and that of interstitialcell origin. dimethylnitrosamine is recommended as a useful chemicalcompound for the study of renal carcinogenesis.

Documento 852: 

renal and adrenal relationshipsin compensatory hyperplasiathe compensatory renal hyperplasia thatnormally follows unilateral nephrectomyis abolished by bilateral adrenalectomy ifrats are maintained on fresh drinkingwater, but is restored when saline drinkingwater is provided or if such animals areinjected with doca. the adrenals are alsoimportant for the increased proliferationcaused by unilateral hydronephrosis. theseexperiments suggest that the role of theadrenal cortex in renal hyperplasia may be tosecrete mineralocorticoids, whichpromote the retention of sodium and therebystimulate cell division in the kidneys.

Documento 19: 

systemic lupus erythematosus and renal transplantation.. report of two cases . two cases of systemic lupus erythematosus along with terminal uremia secondary to lupus nephritis are presented . both patients were treated with renal hemodialysis and transplantation . certain mechanical, infectious, and immunologic problems were responsible for their death . there was no evidence of resurgence of lupus erythematosus in either patient, and the transplanted kidneys did not show evidence of lupus nephritis . renal transplantation should be considered as a last resort in treatment of patients with terminal lupus nephritis .

Documento 956: 

congenital hydronephrosis.histological study of the renal parenchymain cases of hydronephrosis is a guide forsurgical treatment. if the renal parenchymais reduced in thickness to 3 mm. or lessit leads to complete atrophy. but if thethickness is more than 3 mm. conservativeprocedures are justified.

Documento 936: 

compensatory structural and functional changes in the kidney.the radiographic assessment of the renalsize and the factors influencing renalhypertrophy are discussed. the importanceof compensatory hypertrophy and itsprognostic significance is emphasised.the changes are correlated with renal functionas measured by the glomerular filtrationrate and renal plasma flow.

Documento 246: 

renal hemosiderosis (blue kidney) in patients with valvular heart disease . anatomic evidence of intravascular hemolysis, i.e., renal hemosiderosis, was found at necropsy in 4 of 132 patients who died of severe valvular heart disease . the aortic valve in each of these 4 patients was heavily calcified, immobile, and portions of the calcific deposits were in direct contact with the blood . hemolysis in each patient was attributable to direct trauma to erythrocytes traversing thestenotic valve, and the frequency of trauma was increased by an associated regurgitant flow . renal hemosiderosis was not observed in any patient with isolated mitral valve disease, or in those with combined mitral and tricuspid valve malformations .

Documento 193: 

the spectrum of lupus nephritis . fifty cases of sle have been collected over a ten year period and the incidence and clinical picture of ln reviewed in the light of other published data . lupus nephritis, like sle, has a variable pattern of its own with a wide spectrum of renal involvement -dash evaluation of therapy and prognosis will have to be conducted against this background . lupus nephritis may present as a renal syndrome only, without any of the other manifestations of sle . renal involvement in sle is common, but this does not necessarily indicate a poor short-term prognosis . in the peter bent brigham hospital series a sustained raised blood pressure and the onset of renalinsufficiency influenced the prognosis adversely .

Documento 25: 

corticosteroid therapy of amyloid nephrotic syndrome . the results of treatment with prolonged adrenal corticosteroids in 26 adults with amyloid nephrotic syndrome are presented . eight subjects were observed in this series, and 18 additional cases were summarized from the literature . twenty-two of the patients were male and four werefemale . the diagnosis was established by renal biopsy in 19 instances and by autopsy in the others, with 18 patients considered to have primary amyloidosis and 8, secondary amyloidosis . the majority of the subjects died in renal failure with an average survival after onset of the disease of 17.6 months . the renal disease was indistinguishable from that seen in other forms of the nephrotic syndrome, with the possible exceptions of (a) a high incidence of purpuric skin lesions, (b) a low or negligible incidence of hypertension(at times actual hypotension was prominent), and (c) a rapid and inexorable progression of azotemia despite persistence of the clinical and biochemical characteristics of the nephrotic syndrome . amyloidosis was found by percutaneous renal biopsy in 12 per cent of 83 adults with the nephotic syndrome . corticosteroids did not appear to affect the progress of the disease and were neither beneficial nor detrimental . in view of the high incidence of deleterious side effects of prolonged corticosteroid therapy and the availability of potent diuretic agents which may be helpful in relieving edema in this disorder, it is felt that corticosteroids are contraindicated in the treatment of amyloid nephrotic syndrome .

Documento 865: 

parathyroid function in chronic renal failure. a statistical surveyof the plasma biochemistry in azotaemic renal osteodystrophy.a collection has been made of 134 personal andpublished cases of azotemic osteodystrophy in whichadequate information was available concerning thepathological state of the bones. measurements wereavailable of the plasma calcium, plasma phosphate, andblood-urea-nitrogen in all cases, and of plasma bicarbonateand plasma proteins in a representative sample.the plasma levels of calcium and phosphate in the wholeseries of 134 cases were not related reciprocally butwere correlated directly. these data were further analyzedby allocating each case to either of 2 sub-groups,according to the type of pathological lesions present inthe bones. in one group there was evidence of defectivemineralization of skeletal tissues, in the form of eitherrickets or osteomalacia, and the plasma-calcium wasfound to be statistically sub-normal. in the other groupthere was no primary defect of mineralization but thelesions of generalized osteitis fibrosa were present andthe plasma calcium was statistically normal. there wasno significant correlation between the plasma levels ofcalcium and phosphate in either sub-group; and the plasmaphosphate was significantly higher in the group withthe higher plasma calcium levels. the data indicate thatin patients with renal osteodystrophy, contrary to generalbelief, the plasma calcium varies independently of theplasma phosphate. since these results imply differencesin parathyroid function among patients with azotemicosteodystrophy, a survey has also been made ofthe recorded parathyroid weights in chronic renal failure.generalized osteitis fibrosa and the accompanying normallevels of plasma calcium are associated with greaterparathyroid hypertrophy than is found in most casesof chronic renal failure or cases with defective mineralization.the various data are interpreted in relationto the known metabolic disturbances and natural historyof azotemic osteodystrophy. by analogy with states ofsimple vitamin d deficiency, it is suggested that hypocalcemiaand relative unresponsiveness to the calcemicaction of parathyroid hormone are related to an acquiredresistance to vitamin d. the group of cases with statisticallynormal plasma-calcium prove that the parathyroidglands can function effectively in some patientswith chronic renal failure, irrespective of the level ofthe plasma phosphate. the size of the glands and theeffects of sub-total parathyroidectomy in patients of thisgroup suggest that the normal plasma calcium resultsfrom an increased production of parathyroid hormone.the more advanced renal failure in the normocalcemic,as compared with the hypocalcemic, cases could meanthat the development of an effective degree of secondaryhyperparathyroidism is a function of the duration of therenal disease. it seems likely that when the parathyroidresponse is sufficient to overcome the effects of the vitamind resistance it also entails the development of generalizedosteitis fibrosa, healing of the defect of mineralizationand increased liability to metastatic calcification.

Documento 674: 

experimentelle nierenvergroberung nach unilateralernephrektomie bei rattenuntersuchungen mit 3h-thymidinin this paper it is attempted to clarify certain questions as to the mechanismof compensatory renal hypertrophy by means of histological, cytological, andautoradiographical examinations in nephrectomy experiments on young and grownrats. based on the results of this investigation the process of compensatoryrenal hypertrophy must be imagined as follows:as early as two hours after unilateral nephrectomy, a distinct increase of themitosis index without a simultaneous increase in dna-synthesizing cells wasobserved in the remaining kidney. it is assumed that a cell division ofpolyploid cells is involved, which were in a prolonged premitotic rest phase.after a latent period of 48 hours, the dna-synthesizing cells and dividingcells start to increase. the maximum of the regenerative processes is reachedbetween the 3rd and 4th day after nephrectomy. twenty days after unilateralnephrectomy, the regenerative processes are largely concluded.all tubule sections participate in the compensatory renal hypertrophy.although the regenerative processes are most marked in the central section,one cannot speak of the development of an actual indifference zone in theregenerating kidney.in young test animals, compensatory renal hypertrophy is determined moreby mitotic cell division, in older test animals more by polyploidizationprocesses.the results of these investigations provide no certain indications for theassumption that amitotic nuclear divisions play a major part in compensatoryrenal hypertrophy.proliferation processes which in extent and localization run parallel to theregeneration of the parenchyma, are also observed in the cells of theconnective tissue of the renal vessels.

Documento 947: 

the action of vasopressin in renal diabetes insipidus.as the water-retaining action of antidiuretichormone is eliminated in renal diabetesinsipidus, the steps in na transport canbe separately determined. vasopressininduced a prompt increase in freewaterclearance and urinary volume, as wellas a delayed increase in sodium clearance.it is suggested that vasopressin bringsabout stimulation of sodium reabsorption inthe ascending limb of henle's loop. itis supposed that both physiological actionsof antidiuretic hormone - the antidiureticand the sodium-active effect - become operativein two different places in the nephronand synergistically produce a maximumconcentration of urine.

Documento 668: 

cell proliferationin experimental hydronephrosisand compensatory renal hyperplasiamitosis counts and autoradiographic counts of nuclei labeled withtritiated thymidine were made in the renal cortex of male rats in whichthe left ureter was ligated. these were compared with correspondingcounts in the remaining kidney after left nephrectomy, and in sham-operated controls 24, 48 and 72 hours after operation. the cortex ofthe kidney on the obstructed side showed a greater number of tritium-labeled nuclei and mitotic figures than in the kidney undergoing com-pensatory hyperplasia. epithelial and interstitial cells responded simul-taneously on the obstructed side, whereas in the remaining kidney afternephrectomy, the epithelial response preceded a slight interstitial re-sponse by 48 hours. the contralateral kidney in rats subjected toureteral ligation showed no response.we concluded that the early response of increased dna synthesisand cell division in the obstructed kidney was not mediated by humoralfactors; it was localized and probably had a different mechanism thanthe proliferative response occurring in compensatory renal hyperplasia.

Documento 669: 

renal factors in the pathogenesis of hypertensionrenal arteriography and other modern diagnostic procedures have providedthe means of establishing a close relationship between high blood pressure andrenovascular disease. many of these cases are amenable to surgical cure. atthe present time there is no single test for the definitive diagnosis of renalhypertension. careful and intensive studies are mandatory in the selection ofcases suitable for surgery, since hypertension has many etiologic factors andinvolves many complex and sometimes obscure mechanisms. aortography,intravenous urography and split-function tests are among the most importantmethods for definitive diagnosis and for the planning of appropriate surgicalprocedures.at operation, the most commonly observed cause of renal arterial con-striction in the elderly is atherosclerosis, whereas in younger patients it ishyperplasia of the intimal and muscular coats of the renal artery and itsbranches. renovascular surgery may require a variety of technical procedures.in the successful cases there is a striking and permanent reduction in bloodpressure.the accuracy of blood pressure readings is emphasized, since hypertensionis usually discovered for the first time during the course of a routinephysical examination.

Documento 930: 

renal renin in unilaterally nephrectomized hypertensive rats.juxtaglomerular index, renal pressoractivity and width of the zona glomerulosawere normal in unilaterally nephrectomizedhypertensive rats maintained on a normalsodium intake, increased in thosesubjected to sodium depletion and decreasedin those receiving 1% saline. this indicatesthat renin formation and secretion aremost likely the result of the sodium stateof the animal rather than loss of a renin-stimulatingagent in the contralateral orunclipped kidney. failure of sodium to influencethe degree of hypertension inunilaterally nephrectomized hypertensive ratsmilitates against a direct quantitativerelationship between blood pressure and therenin-angiotensin-aldosterone system.

Documento 937: 

bilateral renal hypoplasia of the pig.bilateral renal hypoplasia of the pig is describedand is compared with a previousdescription. the defect was observed in 19piglets out of a total of 73 born in 8litters, sired by one large white boar.twelve affected piglets died at or soonafter birth and 7 died between the ages of 11and 69 days. inheritance by a simpleautosomal recessive factor is suggested bythe evidence. grossly the conditionwas characterized by varying degrees ofhypoplasia and persistence of fetal lobulation.microscopically, the dominant featurewas the poor development of the collectingtubule system. it is concluded thatthe basic defect is a failure of developmentof mesonephric mesenchyme.

Documento 667: 

compensatory renal enlargementhypertrophy versus hyperplasiaafter unilateral nephrectomy in the mouse, the compensatory growthof the remaining kidney is characterized by an increase in rna andprotein synthesis within the first hour. dna synthesis remains un-changed for about 18 hours and then rises to a maximum at 48 hours. bythe end of the fifth day, when dna synthesis has passed its peak and isin decline, cellular hyperplasia has accounted for only one-fourth of theincrease in kidney weight. thus it is shown that cell hypertrophy is boththe primary and the predominant response in the early phase of compen-satory renal enlargement.

Documento 850: 

studies on compensatory renal hypertrophy. i. effect ofunilateral ureteral ligation and transectiondata are presented comparing the relative rateof compensatory renal hypertrophyand hyperplasia of the control kidney of ratsfollowing either unilateral ureteraltransection, ligation, or nephrectomy. the growthof the control kidney on the unoperatedside was strikingly slower after ureteraltransection and ligation whencompared with that resulting from the removalof one kidney. progressive hydronephrosiswas observed on the operated side followingureteral transection andligation and was more pronounced in the latter.degree of hypertrophy of the controlkidney showed a close correlation with degree andduration of the hydronephrosis ofthe kidney on the operated side. these observationshave been interpreted as indicatingthe operation of a control system regulatingkidney growth in response tochanges in some way related to kidney size.

Documento 844: 

actinomycin d and the response to parathyroid hormoneactinomycin d inhibits the effect ofparathyroid hormone upon bone, as measuredby ca mobilization, without alteringits effects upon the renal excretion ofphosphate and ca in rats.

Documento 179: 

bacteriophages that lyse mycobacteria and corynebacteria, and show cytopathogenic effect on tissue cultures of renal cells of cercopithecusaethiops.. a preliminary communication . bacteriophages isolated from sputum and resection specimens of pa- tients suffering from carcinoma of the lung were found to lyse coryne- bacteria and mycobacteria, and to produce a cytopathogenic effect on certain cells in tissue cultures . from the same and other patients withneoplastic disease, bacteria were isolated and described as coryne-my- cobacteria because of bacteriological features they shared with both species . these bacteria, which either were sensitive to mycobacterio- phages and corynebacteriophages or were phage-immune lysogenic bacteria,could be induced to produce lytic particles with phagolytic activity on corynebacteria and mycobacteria and a cytopathogenic effect on hela cells and on the renal cells of cercopithecus .

Documento 847: 

localization of phosphaturic effect ofparathyroid hormone in nephron of the dogthe renal mechanism and tubular site of the phosphaturic action ofparathyroid hormone were investigated by clearance and stop-flowtechniques in one intact and seven thyroparathyroidectomizeddogs. administration of hormone caused a significant increasein the excretion of phosphate without increasing the filteredload. stop-flow analysis indicated that in the absence of parathyroidhormone most of the filtered phosphate was reabsorbedin the proximal tubule, and that the hormone increased therate of phosphate excretion by inhibiting this reabsorptivemechanism. p32 injected during stopped flow showed no significanttransport across the renal tubule despite the presence ofexcess parathyroid hormone. significant p32 activity appearedin the stop-flow collections simultaneously with the appearanceof new filtrate. there was no evidence that parathyroid hormonemediated a secretory process for phosphate excretion.

Documento 678: 

the role of age and x-irradiation on kidneyfunction in the mousefemale mouse kidneys show a decline with respect to age in the ability toconcentrate the urine during a 24-hour water fast. x-irradiation early inlife has no measurable long-term effect on this process.kidney cortex slices of old female mice can concentrate p-aminohippuricacid against a concentration gradient equally as well as slices from youngmice. there is no loss in this ability by cortex slices from young or oldfemale x-irradiated mice.it is uncertain whether compensatory renal hypertrophy after unilateralnephrectomy declines with age in nonirradiated mice. x-irradiation doescause a reduction in the degree of compensatory renal hypertrophy in the agingmouse. this reduction may represent a loss in the ability of kidney cells toundergo cell division.the administration of testosterone propionate to old mice during compen-satory renal hypertrophy results in an increased hypertrophy. the increase isrelatively the same for irradiated and nonirradiated mice, indicating the lackof a long-term effect of x-irradiation to reduce the ability of a targetorgan to respond to a hormone.the over-all conclusion of this study, with respect to "radiation-inducedaging," is that x-irradiation of the female swiss mouse early in life does nothave a pronounced effect on kidney function late in life but may have a long-term effect on those processes concerned with cell division.

Documento 463: 

4417. value and significance of the prednisolone test in diseases of the kidneytwelve normal subjects, 18 cases oftubulo-interstitial nephropathy, 12 cases ofglomerular nephropathy and 17 casesof other renal disorders were investigated.all patients were given a prednisolonetest, with urine culture before and after thetest, and in many instances determinationof the urinary osmolarity; the urinarysediment was examined with the sternheimerand malbin staining technique andwith the peroxydase stain to investigate theurinary cytology. with the criteriaadopted, the test was negative in the normalsand was positive in 61.1% of the casesof chronic pyelonephritis and in 12.1% of theremaining cases of unequivocally non-infectious renal disease. the increase of theurinary bacterial count after cortico-steroid administration, and investigation of thevarious components of the urinarysediment also supplied useful diagnosticinformation. on the contrary, the stern-heimer-malbin stain for the urinarysediment proved of little use.

Documento 545: 

vergleichende renale phosphatelearance-untersuchungenbeim hyperparathyreoidismus und beim sog. phosphatdiabetesthe analysis of the function of the kidneys give a contribution tothe pathophysiology of two different diseases of general osteopathieswhose pathogenesis or etiology are still not clear in some points. thephosphate clearance pre- and postoperative in one patient with hyper-parathyroidism showed that after the removal of the adenoma of theparathyroid the renal reabsorption of phosphate improved only tempo-rary as a secondary form of hyperparathyroidism was already present.in a patient with a "phosphatdiabetes" the clearance examination showedthat under a high dosage of vitamin d the reabsorption of phosphate didnot increase. based on these results we have not continued therapywith vitamin d which is certainly not indifferent. comparative renalclearance examinations were carried out in 10 patients which did notshow any disturbances of calcium/phosphate-metabolism.

			********** Consulta 15:  homonymous hemianopsia in visual aphasia **********

Documento 360: 

1384. importance of campimetry and carotid and vertebral angiography inthrombosis of the posterior cerebral arterythe authors report a case of thrombosis of the posterior cerebral artery whichpresented only lateral homonymous hemianopia and stress the importance ofcampimetry and of carotid angiography beside vertebral angiography.

Documento 219: 

alterations of visual evoked response in the presence of homonymous visual defects . the visual evoked response (ver) was studied by means of computer averaging in 32 normal subjects, nineteen patients without visual disorder but with unilateral cerebral lesions, and 30 patients with homonymous visual field defects . an early negative-positive-negative complex was recorded between laterally placed occipital electrodes and avertex reference . latencies were prolonged in the hemianopic patients .some amplitude asymmetries were noted in the brain-damaged controls but were more pronounced in patients with visual defects . the recordings inthe hemianopic patients were differentiated from those in both control groups by the presence of aberrant wave forms (2 cases),. prolonged latencies (3 cases),. and amplitude depression of greater then 50 per cent of the positive wave on the abnormal side (16 cases) . pathologic verification was obtained in three patients and demonstrated a correspondence between alterations in the ver and the presence of lesions of the geniculocalcarine system .

Documento 361: 

375. hemianopsia and glaucomaafter a discussion of the bibliographic references to the few observations onthe simultaneous occurrence of hemianopsias and glaucoma the author states onthe basis of his experiences the following points homonymous hemianopsiasoccasionally take place in glaucoma, although no direct relation can beestablished between the former and the glaucoma. it has to be pointed out,however, that in other older patients, for example in those with retinaldetachment, neuritis, etc. who are likewise subjected to repeated and exactperimetry, such hemianopsias do not occur, or are to be found at a lesser ratethan in glaucoma. a homonymous hemianopsia has to be taken into considerationalso in the event of a sudden impairment of the visual field in a glaucomatouspatient or when the hemianopic defect supervenes in addition to the visualfield defect due to glaucoma. in cases of binasal hemianopsia, thesimultaneous presence of glaucoma is not a rare incident. whether thebinasal hemianopsia is the result of the gradual development of aglaucomatous visual field with nasal defects or whether it constitutes anindependent symptom to a certain extent, cannot always be clarifiedin the individual case. obviously the condition of the basal cerebralvessels plays a certain role in the development of glaucoma, even ifthis role cannot be clearly defined as yet. in cases ofbinasal hemianopsia, a glaucoma has to be ruled out before radical diagnosticand therapeutic measures are carried out.

Documento 220: 

cerebro-vascular lesions and livedo reticularis . extensive livedo reticularis has been observed in one man and five women who have suffered from a series of cerebrovascular lesions . the neurological disabilities have included aphasia, homonymous hemianopia and hemiplegia but have been remarkable for the degree of recovery whichhas occurred . it is presumed that the livedo which has been found in only one patient without neurological lesions is related to the cerebrovascular incidents . investigations have failed to show any evidence of polyarteritis nodosa, disseminated lupus erythematosus and thrombocythaemia and an arteritis of unrecognized type is suggested as the etiology .

Documento 222: 

supratentorial paratransversal meningiomas . the author describes 6 cases of supratentorial paratransversal meningioma . clinically, the development of these tumours is slow and the chief neurological signs are.. homonymous hemianopia, contralateral hemiparesis and speech disorders when the tumour is on the dominant sideradiologically, carotid angiography permits identification of these tumours easily . surgically, the tumours were removed completely and, although in 2 cases the transverse sinus had to be resected, this causedno damage . one patient, who was operated on twice and whose histological specimen on the second occasion showed that the meningioma was malignant, died seven months after the second operation . the other patients are well and free of neurological deficits from 1 to 12 years after operation .

Documento 356: 

2496. dysbarism among hyperbaric personnela survey of the effects of hyperbaric exposure on 62 medical personnel exposedto 1,516 compressions and decompressions revealed no case of permanent illeffect. pain in the ears or sinuses was the most common symptom but couldoften be ameliorated or avoided by the valsalva technique of forcedinsufflation with the nostrils occluded. the most serious symptomsencountered were 3 episodes of transient homonymous hemianopsia. theclassic symptoms of decompression sicknessextremity pains (the 'bends'), pulmonary orsubsternal distress (the 'chokes'), and skin dysesthesias occurred only rarely,and were so mild or so fleeting as to require no treatment. a furtherreduction in symptoms without increase in decompression time may beobtained by the inhalation of 100% oxygen during decompression stops atpressures below 26.8 pounds per square inch gauge (psig).

			********** Consulta 16:  separation anxiety in infancy ie **********

Documento 99: 

maternal separation in the rhesus monkey . the present study involved separation of eight monkey mother-infant pairs for a period of two weeks and measurement of the behavior of the infants before, during and after reunion with their mothers, and of the mothers before and after reunion . all infants showed emotional disturbance in response to separation and drastic decreases in play and other complex social behaviors while separated . it is clear that infant-mother separation produces emotional disturbance in both human and macaque infants and that the patterns of responses following separation are similar in both species . the resultsobtained in studies of monkey infant-mother separation indicate that sheer physical separation is the crucial aspect of maternal separation for monkeys . undoubtedly other factors associated with separation from the mother are vitally important for human children, and may account in part for the absence or rarity of the detachment stage (as seen in humanresponse pattern) in separated monkey infants . the overall results showconsiderable similarity in the responses of human children and infant monkeys to separation from the mother .

Documento 498: 

11306. separation and attempted suicide.of 3 groups of psychiatric patients-at-tempted suicides, those with suicidal urges, and non-suicides-there were significantly more attemptedsuicides among patients with a history of childhood andantecedent separation than controls. in childhood thesignificant difference was found primarily in the periodfrom birth to 7 yr. there was no significant interactionbetween childhood and antecendent separation andsuicide attempt or suicide urge.

Documento 36: 

separation anxiety as a cause of early emotional problems in children . in summary, three cases of disturbed behavior in children have been discussed, with particular emphasis on disturbances in feeding, sleeping, and motility . some of the hypotheses have been presented of why such behavior should develop,. the significance of attachment behavior and separation anxiety in infants has been particularly stressed . difficulties in mothering care are threatening to the child'ssense of security and lead to greater experience of separation anxiety, which may then be reflected in various disturbances or alterations in his behavior . this experience of separation anxiety is the result of early life experience, may reach pathologic proportions, and may accountfor many later problems in children and adults .

Documento 497: 

9101. separation experiences and health records in a group of normal adults.about 25% of 455 ostensibly normal ssreported a recent "separation experience" as definedin this study. the frequency of visits to the dis-pensary for symptomatic complaints was not signifi-cantly higher among those who reported separationthan among those who did not. the data suggestthat an apparent association between relatively highcornell medical index score and history of separationexperience may be understandable in terms of a cause-effect relationship between separation experience and illness.

Documento 202: 

stranger and separation anxiety in infancy . anxiety responses to strangers and to separations from mother were studied longitudinally in 19 infants between the ages of three and 23 months by direct observations and by interviews with the mother . benjamin's hypotheses concerning the differentiation and immediate dynamics of infantile stranger and separation anxiety were supported by the findings . differences in onset, period of highest intensity, termination, and ratios in individuals were found between the two anxieties . tests of the relationship between the two anxieties were supportive of deductive predictions made by benjamin . sex differences in intensity of the two anxieties were found .

Documento 496: 

1808. separation anxiety a factor in the object relations ofschizophrenic patients.the thesis is advanced thatspecial vulnerability to separation anxiety is a crucialfactor in the schizophrenic's difficulty in establishingand maintaining satisfactory interpersonal relationships.2 major reasons for this are lack of autonomy and lackof object constancy. without a stable autonomouscapacity for self-regulation and adaptation, he is inordi-nately dependent upon others for help, protection, anddirection. without object constancy, he is unable tomaintain a stable representation of the needed person inthe latter's absence. evidence is presented from theintensive psychotherapy of schizophrenic patients.many of the vicissitudes of the doctor-patient relation-ship center about the patient's separation anxiety andhis attempted defenses against it. these include clinging,perceptual and cognitive distortions designed to denyseparation, and recourse to substitute objects. promi-nent in many of these efforts is the attempt to reversepassive victimization into active mastery. the practicalimplications of this thesis for the treatment of schiz-ophrenic patients are discussed.

Documento 489: 

4846. the meaning of cryingthe multiple meanings of crying arereviewed and, in particular, stress is laidon tears as a response to some type of separation loss.

Documento 189: 

detection of pericardial effusion by radioisotope heart scanning . a marked difference between the cardiac silhouette on the six-foot chest roentgenogram and the cardiac blood pool, determined by radioiso- tope scanning, has been shown to be consistent with pericardial effusionand/or thickening . it has also been observed that the cardiac blood pool is separated from the liver margin by the interposition of peri- cardial fluid and/or thickening . this separation was not demonstrated in the presence of a normal pericardium . to appreciate these features, 400 c. of radioiodinated human serum albumin and 50 c. of colloidal radiogold were used for scanning . the former outlined the blood pool and the latter demonstrated the position of the liver .

Documento 494: 

2906. early childhood separationsevery child in this long-term study of childrearing showed significant reactions toordinary separations by about 1 yr. of age.the similar pattern of response in thisgroup of children suggests a biologicallydetermined cause. the clinging reactionappeared when the child became mobile andable to move away from his mother re-gardless of the frequency or duration of hisseparations. the majority of the mothersdid not understand this natural phenomenonand regarded the clinging and crying ofthe 1-year-old as evidence of spoiled orregressed behavior. the pediatrician canbe helpful to a mother by anticipating andexplaining separation responses, by indi-cating their universality, and by givingspecific recommendations for gradual changesto modify these reactions.

Documento 509: 

1752. separation of the soluble proteins of bovine lenses onpolyacrylamide gelsthe soluble proteins of bovine lenses wereseparated by gel filtration on polyacryl-amide gels. the presence of ethylenediaminetetra-acetate in the buffer was foundto be essential for achieving a good separationof the lens homogenate into fourfractions - a, b, c and d. ultracentrifugal,electrophoretic and immunochemicalanalyses were used to compare these fractionswith the soluble crystallin fractionsof the lens. fraction a was comparedwith a-crystallin, fractions b and c withb-crystallin and fraction d with y-crystallin.the distribution of these four proteinfractions in the nuclear and cortical partsof calf and cow lenses was determined.the oxidation-sensitive protein fraction ofthe calf lenses was separated fromfraction b on an se-sephadex column.

Documento 493: 

2736. the emotional needs of children in hospitalhospitalization of a child for physicalreasons brings with it separation from pa-rents, siblings and familiar surroundings,as well as the probability of subjectionto frightening and painful procedures.unless steps are taken to prevent or modifythe resultant stress, behavioraldisturbances may arise and may result in per-manent damage to the developing personality.

Documento 835: 

blood vascular disorders inconnection with the nose,throat and earthese disorders include (1) those having lesionsprimarily in the nose, throat or ear, and (2) thoseproducing symptoms and signs in nose, throatand/or ear only as a part of their symptomatologyand involve other organs as well. we will con-sider the lesions in connection with the nose,throat and ear separately.

Documento 205: 

changes in children's behavior after hospitalization some dimensions of response and their correlates . changes in 387 children's behavior following hospitalization were evaluated by means of a questionnaire sent to parents a week after discharge . factor analyses revealed that children's responses to hospitalization and illness were of six types.. (i) general anxiety and regression, (ii) separation anxiety, (iii) anxiety about sleep, (iv) eating disturbance, (v) aggression toward authority, and (vi) apathy-withdrawal . scores for these six factors (types of responses) aswell as a total score, were analyzed by univariate and, in most cases, multivariate analyses of variance . four variables -dash sex, prior hospitalization, degree of pain experienced during hospitalization, and birth order -dash were essentially unrelated to any type of response by any analysis . age, duration of hospitalization, and occupational statuswere each significantly related to one or more types of responses . comparison of the mean factor and total scores for the full sample with the levels indicative of no overall change indicated that the combination of illness and hospitalization is a psychologically upsetting experience for children in general, resulting in increased separation anxiety, increased sleep anxiety, and increased aggression toward authority .

Documento 142: 

the effects of electrophoretically separated lens proteins on lens regeneration in diemyctylus viridescens . in the present study, lenses were removed from the eyes of adult anesthetized newts, macerated in 0.03 m borate buffer at ph 8.6, and separated by starch gel electrophoresis . upon staining with amido black10-b, seven distinct staining areas appeared in the blocks . three bandsmoved toward the anode, and three toward the cathode . in addition, a seventh moiety represented by a smear of material moved toward the anodeone millimeter times five tenths millimeter plugs were removed from each of these areas and were placed into freshly lentectomized eyes . plugs from most strongly positive and most weakly negative proteins inhibited lens regeneration . in addition, plugs from the area containing the weakly negative protein induced either lenses with aberrant polarity or double centered lenses with centers of opposed polarity . all other protein bands had no significant effect on regeneration . in addition to the above experiments, homogenates and proteinasedigested homogenates of lenses were injected into eyes following lentectomy . three 5-ul samples were injected in each case over a six day period . injection of the plain homogenate stimulated lens regeneration markedly, while the proteinase destroyed the stimulatory activity . theoretical considerations of the above data are discussed .

Documento 947: 

the action of vasopressin in renal diabetes insipidus.as the water-retaining action of antidiuretichormone is eliminated in renal diabetesinsipidus, the steps in na transport canbe separately determined. vasopressininduced a prompt increase in freewaterclearance and urinary volume, as wellas a delayed increase in sodium clearance.it is suggested that vasopressin bringsabout stimulation of sodium reabsorption inthe ascending limb of henle's loop. itis supposed that both physiological actionsof antidiuretic hormone - the antidiureticand the sodium-active effect - become operativein two different places in the nephronand synergistically produce a maximumconcentration of urine.

Documento 218: 

implications of gerstmann's syndrome . of 465 consecutive patients subjected to a standardized battery of neuropsychological tests, 111 had one or more components of gerstmann's syndrome . each of these 111 patients had some evidence of organic braindysfunction in addition to gerstmann components . as the number of gerstmann components increased, the responsible brain lesions tended to be larger, more highly destructive of tissue, and to cause greater neurological impairment . every patient with four gerstmann components had associated evidence of severe impairment of brain functions and the lesion or underlying disease was likely to compromise survival of the patient . the syndrome is not to be regarded as an autonomous entity, but merges with numerous other neurological deficits, notably dysphasia in agreement with benton, we find no justification for singling out the four gerstmann components as a separate syndrome, unless one is alsoprepared to recognize that any other arbitrary groups of concurrent deficits are also separate syndromes . in at least three of 23 patients with all four gerstmann components, the angular gyrus, as shown by necropsy examination, was not involved bythe lesion . however, the probability that the left hemisphere containeda lesion increased with the number of gerstmann components, and the probability of involvement of the left posterior parasylvian area also increased with the increase in the number of gerstmann components . withtwo, three, or four gerstmann components, the lesions were never restricted to the angular gyrus but tended to spread widely over the parietal, temporal, and occipital lobes . as to localizing significance,gerstmann's syndrome has approximately the same degree of cogency as dysphasia .

Documento 491: 

1848. the child's concept of deathin this translation of a paper, which firstappeared in 1912, it is shown, accordingto freud, how far a child's appreciationof being dead differs from its true signifi-cance. death means a reversible decreasein life functions, that can be interruptedat any time, like sleep. at other times itmay mean a temporary separation; butalways it is in man's power to change it.in this concept, the child's unconsciousfinds license for his sadism. cruelty toanimals and death wishes against personsclose to him appear, in overcompensation, asexaggerated pity for dead creaturesand the belief in man's power over life and death.

Documento 492: 

1849. mother child interaction during separation individuationafter a stage of normal autism during the1st weeks of extrauterine life, the infantpasses into a symbiotic phase, graduallyemerging from this stage of dual unity atthe end of the 5th mth and during the 6th mth.just before this, the next phaseseparation individuation begins. fourcharacteristic subphases of this separationindividuation process are describeddifferentiation, the practicing period, associationand a stage, characterized by unfoldingof complex cognitive functions. the relationof mother and child throughout thesesubphases are studied and illustrated by clinicalmaterial. a poor relation between motherand child in 1 subphase does not necessarilyor usually preclude impressive changesfor the better in the next subphase.

Documento 391: 

1671. the use of 99m tc pertechnetate in cardiac scanningtechnetium 99m pertechnetate has been utilizedin the aas' laboratory for scanning thecardiac blood pool. the delineation of the heartpool and surrounding vasculatureis comparable to that obtained with the standard131 i compounds now in use. in theauthors' hands 99m tc had the following advantagessince they routinely utilized99m tc for brain and thyroid scans, it is available,eliminating the purchase andshelf decay of other materials. three to 5 mc quantitiesmay be administeredwith relatively low patient radiation dosage. theassociated high count rate permitsrapid scanning. the identification of pericardial effusionsis enhanced by the radio-activity in the stomach which in some cases becomesabnormally separated fromthe cardiac blood pool.

Documento 130: 

the inorganic constituents of human teeth and bone examined by x-ray emission spectrography . x-ray emission spectrography has been applied to study of the elemental composition of human teeth, enamel, dentine and bone . the material consisted of eight crushed teeth, enamel and dentine powder separated from eighteen teeth, and four pieces of buccal cortical mandibular bone . the teeth did not have fillings . the whole material contained nineteen elements, of which the main ones were calcium and phosphorus . in all the samples of tooth material, there were found ca, p, cl, fe, zn, sr and k, and the bone also contained ni . the time needed for a semi-quantitative analysis compares very favourably with that needed for other methods .

Documento 180: 

gel filtration of the soluble proteins from normal and cataractous humanlenses . the soluble proteins of normal and cataractous lenses were separated according to their molecular size on the polysaccharide gel sephadex g-100 . in cataractous as well as in normal lenses 4 different compo- nents were obtained . during the evolution of cataract there is a pre- ferential decrease of the low molecular weight proteins of the lens . these disappeared completely in mature and hypermature cataract . on theother hand, the proteins of high molecular weight (e.g., -crystallin) are very resistant to the pathological process . the electrophoretic pattern of the low molecular weight proteins in the normal lens revea- led several fractions distributed over a large mobility area . after immunoelectrophoresis, 3 different precipitin lines were obtained .

Documento 486: 

265. studies in personality. ii. a bio-psychological and experimentalapproach to problems of human adaptation in modern societyexperimentally determined fixation-ambivalencemeasures are related to some anxiety estimates obtain-ed from a projective test in a group of male adolescents.it is shown that (1) fixation increases with increase incorporal injury anxiety when ambivalence is kept con-stant, (2) ambivalence increases with increase in separa-tion anxiety when fixation is kept constant, (3) extremelyhetero-fixated subjects show presence of intense guiltand absence of aggression towards the mother; one ef-fect of this system of organizers seems to besuicidaltendencies, (4) extremely ambivalent subjects have in-tense separation anxiety; one effect seems to be suicidaltendencies combined with high ambition and impairedcognitive capacity.

Documento 488: 

4854. on the formation of object-relations and identifications of thekibbutz childsome of the issues relevant to the earlystages of object relation formation andidentification of kibbutz children arediscussed. for this purpose the child rearingmilieu of the kibbutz child is describedand some clinical illustrations are given.the relationship to the mother is seenas the main object-relation and those to theeducators as transient-interchangeableneed-satisfying relationships. on the basisof retrospective analytical material itappears that in the course of developmentthe two relations as well as the tworespective, originally distinct, object represen-tations are synthetised into one. theconditions of communal education, character-ised by double object-relation formationfrom birth on, are seen as factors that in-tensify the 'normative crisis of infancy',especially the transition from the symbio-tic to the separation-individuation stageof object-relation development.

Documento 481: 

2565. separation of the transforming and viral deoxyribonucleic acids of atransducing bacteriophage of bacillus subtilisthe authors used the transducing b. subtilisphage ps 10 and present the fol-lowing experimental data dna isolated fromps 10 is effective for transformationof competent b. subtilis cells. ps 10 dna isdistinguishable from b. subtilis dnaby its higher density in a cs2so4 gradient andits lower thermal denaturationtemperature. the transforming activity presentin dna from ps 10 denatures ata temperature characteristic of b. subtilis dnarather than of viral dna. thetransforming activity of ps 10 dna bands in acs2so4 gradient with bacterial dna.this data indicated that bacterial dna isincorporated into phage ps 10 withoutbeing integrated in the viral dna. this incorporatedbacterial dna is involvedin transduction.

Documento 260: 

ventricular septal defect with aortic insufficiency a clinical and hemodynamic study of 18 proved cases . eighteen patients with the combination of ventricular septal defect and aortic insufficiency were studied . nine also had infundibular pulmonary stenosis . seventeen were treated by open-heart operations . the physical findings were those of a typical ventricular defect murmur and thrill together with an aortic insufficiency blow and a wide pulse pressure . a systolic murmur at the upper left sternal border withthrill is strongly suggestive of the additional lesion of infundibular pulmonary stenosis, but the presence or absence of infundibular pulmonary stenosis was indicated most accurately at cardiac catheterization and on inspection at operation . it was not of sufficient severity for signs of additional right ventricular hypertrophy to appear on the electrocardiogram . retrograde aortography serves to demonstrate the severity of the aortic regurgitation . the problem of the surgical correction of these lesions will be the subject of a separate communication .

Documento 355: 

1303. the problem of visual agnosiathis is a critical assessment of the ancient and modern theories on visualagnosia. an original description of the subjective world of these patients isalso given. visual agnosia is a rare disorder, but it has led to comprehensivediscussions, for instance, by the fact that the problem of normal visualperception is always involved. bay's view, which denies the existence ofagnosia as a separate phenomenon in perception disorders, is especially dealtwith. it is affirmed that no case has been described in the literaturein which visual agnosia is decidedly a pure and isolated phenomenon.mostly there are also disturbances in the intellectual interpretation of visualdata. often there is metamorphopsia or asthenopia. there is no localizedprestriate gnostic center for visual impressions. the older concept of higherand lower levels of perception and perception disorders is also criticized.visual perception is not a passive, but a very active process, in whichneurophysiological and psychological aspects are involved.each of these can bedisturbed, leading to various degrees of visual perception disturbance.

Documento 495: 

9787. changes in developmental quotient under two conditions of maternalseparation.developmental scales wereadministered to 2 groups of infants during and sub-sequent to a temporary period of institutionalization.although both groups experienced maternal separa-tion, only 1 group was subjected to deprivation, inthat it received very much less stimulation than theother. results from a longitudinal testing programshow that the scores of the deprived group duringthe period of separation were significantly lower thanthose of the nondeprived group, no progressive de-terioration of scores took place in the course ofinstitutionalization, immediately following returnhome, while the scores of the nondeprived group re-mained constant, those of the deprived infants jumpedto the level of the other group. 3 theories regardingthe mechanism underlying the association betweendeprivation and developmental retardation are exam-ined and it is suggested that an explanation in moti-vational terms best fits the results obtained.

Documento 121: 

measurement of pericardial fluid correlated with the i -cholografin and ihsa heart scan . in 23 patients undergoing open-heart surgery in whom the pericardial contents were accurately measured, and in 11 additional patients examined at autopsy or by pericardiocentesis, isotopic photoscans of theheart were made and the results were correlated . the most accurate means of diagnosis of pericardial effusion was foundto be the ratio of the maximum transverse cardiac diameters on scan and roentgenogram . in patients with less than 100 cc of pericardial fluid this ratio was greater than 0.80, and it was less than this in cases of effusion of 200 cc or more . measurement of the difference of these diameters, and visible separation of the cardiac blood pool from the pulmonary vasculature and liver aided in the diagnosis . pericardial effusions of 200-300 cc or greater can be detected by isotopic photoscanning . although cardiac dilatation and/or hypertrophy decrease the sensitivity of the technique somewhat, a definite diagnosisof pericardial effusion can be made even when cardiomegaly exists .

Documento 500: 

1949. studies on the soluble proteins of bovine lens. immuno-chemical analyses of protein fractionsthe lyophilized soluble lens proteinswere dissolved in 0.005 m phosphate bufferat ph 6.8 and the solution was subjected tocolumn chromatography on deae (die-thylamino ethyl) cellulose. elution wasaccomplished by changing the ph and ionicstrength of the eluting buffer. the componentswere fractionated by stepwise elu-tion. the lens proteins were separated into17 fractions by column chromatogra-phy. these fractions were compared witha, b and y crystallines for electrophore-tic mobility, and the antigenic purity of eachfraction was examined immunochemi-cally. the results showed that while thefractions were not completely pure theywere purer than the a, b and y crystallinefractions, and that f-1-a, b, c and dcorresponded to y crystalline, whilef-2-a, b, c, d, e and f corresponded to bcrystalline and f-3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and9 to a crystalline.

Documento 365: 

2469. the nature of collagen disease, particularly of systemic lupuserythematosus (sle), with special reference to renal lesions (japanese)from the results of examination of 161 autopsy cases of collagen diseases,rheumatic fever and polyarteritis nodosa (pn) are considered as diseases ofhyperergic nature, showing pronounced specific manifestation in particularorgans. as the reactivity becomes lower, this specific localization becomesless significant and many organs become affected in sle. it may accordingly besupposed that sle is not a disease of hypersensitivity but one occurring ina state of exhaustion of reactability after prolonged sensitization. moreover,a sle-like syndrome arises not only in the end stage of parasepsis, nephritis,nephrosis and some cases of prolonged sensitization by myco.tb but also inpn,pss,dm and rheumatism. it may therefore be conceivable that sle isa syndrome rather than a separate entity. it is most important to considerwhether sle-like symptomatology may be regarded as a process equal toan auto-immunization and whether the key to morphological elucidation of theauto-immune phenomenon may lie hidden in this problem.

Documento 399: 

3748. four separate tumour clones derived from a transplantable pleo-morphic carcinoma of the lung in a heterozygous mousea metastasising pleomorphic adenocarcinomain the lung of an untreated hetero-zygous male mouse was successfullytransplanted to 4 brothers by the 'plating'technique of henderson and rous. by'plating' multiple small grafts in air bells inthe subcutaneous tissues of the new hostsit was possible to select 4 different clonesof transplantable tumour for further study.the histological peculiarities ofdifferent parts of the original tumourwere reproduced in the different clones a i,ii, iii, and b. retrospective studyof the primary tumour and of its metastasesprovided some interesting clues to routesof metastasis and the selective survival ofmalignant cells. it is concluded that bythe cloning of transplantable cells, at thefirst serial passage, valuable informationabout the histogenesis and potentialmalignancy of the primary tumour can beobtained. lastly, the highly malignantcharacter of 4 clones of tumour cells apparentlyderived from the familiar clinicallybenign adenoma of the mouse lung maybe of some interest, from the point ofview of prognosis based on histology.

Documento 477: 

1362. the synthesis of phage and host dna in the establishment of lysogenya method of extraction is described whichprevents excessive fragmentation of bac-terial dna. the larger bacterial dna canthen be separated from the phage dnaon sucrose gradients. the relative amountsof phage and host dna made at varioustimes during infection of s. typhimuriumwith phage p22 leading to lysogeny havebeen determined. phage-specific dnasynthesis begins at about 4 min, continuesto increase for 2-4 min, and then decreasesuntil complete repression is attainedat 16 min. autonomous phage dna synthesisremains repressed from then on. bac-teria-specific synthesis proceeds at adecreasing rate until about 16 min, whenalmost complete inhibition is reached.when dna synthesis recovers in the in-fected cells, only host-specific materialis made. a new species of dna, which ismade only when phage dna is synthesized,has been detected. the possible implica-tions of these findings in the understandingof the lysogenic interaction is discussed.

			********** Consulta 17:  nickel in nutrition requirements for **********

Documento 38: 

studies of nickel carcinogenesis fractionations of nickel in ultracentrifugal supernatants of lung and liver by means of dextran gel chromatography . chromatographic fractionations have been performed on the ultracentrifugal supernatants of homogenates of rat lung and liver by the use of columns of dextran gel (sephadex g-100) . a major proportion of nickel in these tissue supernatants has been demonstrated to be firmly bound to macromolecular constituents . following acute and chronic inhalation of carcinogenic levels of nickel carbonyl, the predominant increases in the concentrations of nickel have been observedin the macromolecular fractions . these findings are consistent with theprevious demonstration of nickel in purified preparations of ribonucleicacids (rna) from several rat tissues, and with the observation of increased concentrations of nickel in high-molecular weight rna from lung and liver following the inhalation of nickel carbonyl .

Documento 336: 

3200. studies on the binding of protein by nickel.with special reference toits role in nickel sensitivitythe reaction between nickel and proteinswas studied using the technique ofequilibrium dialysis. in most of the experimentscrystalline bovine serumalbumen was used. the nickel-protein complexwas of low stability, the quantityof nickel bound by the protein being dependenton the concentration of freenickel ions, the ph, and the particular protein used.the sites of binding ofthe nickel ions were primarily carboxyl and aminogroups. the author concludedthat it was unlikely that nickel behaved as ahapten capable of initiating anallergic response.

Documento 41: 

measurements of nickel in biological materials by atomic absorption spectrometry . an atomic absorption procedure has been developed which facilitates quantitative measurements of nickel in biological materials, including urine, ribonucleic acids (rna), and serum proteins . the sensitivity of detection of nickel by the atomic absorption spectrometer (0.10 p.p.m.) was insufficient to permit direct measurements of nickel in normal urine . therefore, it was necessary to employ a dimethylglyoxime extraction procedure to concentrate the nickel, prior to atomic absorption spectrometry . the coefficients of variation of measurements of nickel in urine and human b- globulins were 6.3 and 5.9 per cent, respectively . the recovery of nickel added to urine averaged 96 per cent, with a range from 94 to 97, and the recovery of nickel added to human b-globulin averaged 101 per cent, with a range from 96 to 104 . the mean concentration of nickel in 24-hr. collections of urine from 17 normal subjects was 1.8 ug. per 100 ml. (s.d. = 0.8), with a range from 0.4 to 3.1 . the mean urinary excretion of nickel was 19.8 ug. per 24 hr. (s.d. = 10.0), with a range from 7.2 to 37.6 . the mean concentration of nickel in 5 preparations of ribonucleic acids from ultracentrifugal supernatants of homogenates of rat lung was 48 ug. of ni per gm. of rna, with a range from 34 to 64 . the mean concentration of nickel in 5 preparations of rna from ultracentrifugal supernatants of homogenates of rat liver was 29 ug. of ni per gm. of rna, with a range from 21 to 39 . measurements of nickel were performed upon fractions of human serum proteins, prepared by continuous-flow electrophoresis, and by cold-ethanol precipitation . the highest concentrations of nickel were found in preparations of serum b-globulins .

Documento 128: 

nickel carbonyl.. its detection and potential for formation . recent recommendations for control of nickel carbonyl exposures have been considered in the design of a simple, sensitive field method for sampling nickel carbonyl in air and process gases . the method involves collection in dilute aqueous hcl, ph adjustment, nickel complex development with alpha-furildioxime, and extraction with chloroform . color intensity is compared visually (or for greater accuracy, spectrophotometrically) with liquid standards . sensitivities on the order of 0.001 ppm are obtainable . a detailed development of the thermodynamics associated with the formation of nickel carbonyl is also presented to show the maximum concentrations of nickel carbonyl that maybe formed over a wide range of co concentrations, temperatures and pressures .

Documento 342: 

188. studies of nickel carcinogenesis;metastasizing pulmonary tumors in ratsinduced by the inhalation of nickel carbonylin a combined series of studies, 6 out of 409 rats (n.b. only 195 survived formore than 3 wk.) exposed to nickel carbonyl developed pulmonary carcinomawith metastases. the lesions included the common types of pulmonary cancer,squamous cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma and anaplastic carcinoma. all ofthe pulmonary lesions were found between 24 and 27 mth. after the initialexposure to nickel carbonyl. the amount of nickel found capable of inducinglung cancer in the rat was comparable to the amount of nickel inhaled bypersons smoking less than 15 cigarettes per day for a period of a year. themean weight of rats chronically exposed to nickel carbonyl was found to beconsistently less than that of the control rats throughout the entire 3-yearperiod of study.

Documento 341: 

4010. studies of nickel carcinogenesis.the subcellular partition of nickelin lung and liver following inhalation of nickel carbonylwistar rats were exposed by inhalation tonickel carbonyl either once onlyat a concentration of 80 ppm for 60 minutes(0.60 mg ni(co)4/l.air), orrepeatedly at 4 ppm (0.03 mg ni(co)4/l. air)for 30 minutes 3 times weeklyfor 1 year. they were killed 24 hours after(the final period of) exposure.nuclear, mitochondrial, microsomal and supernatantfractions were isolatedfrom lung and liver homogenates and measurementsof the nickel, nitrogenand rna-content of each subcellular fractionwere made. the greatest ratiosof nickel to nitrogen were in the nuclearfractions of both liver and lung,but increased amounts of nickel were also foundin the microsomal andsupernatant fractions of both liver and lungand in the mitochondrialfraction of lung.

Documento 37: 

the production of malignant tumours by nickel in the rat . powdered metallic nickel when injected intramuscularly into rats produced tumours of striated muscle origin, most of which were very welldifferentiated .

Documento 339: 

670. steroid aerosol spray in contact dermatitis.prophylactic use withparticular reference to nickel hypersensitivityproper use of topical aerosol dexamethasone(decadron) spray affords completeprotection to patients with nickel sensitivity.this clinical result isconfirmed by the results of patch testingnickel-sensitive patients with a5% nickel sulfate solution and nickel coins.a combination of dexamethasone andan isopropylmyristate film is necessaryfor successful prophylaxis; theindividual components alone do not protectthese patients. clinical and patchtest results indicate that a moderate degreeof protection is afforded topatients with paraphenylenediamine sensitivity.patch test results indicatethat the spray does not protect againstpoison ivy and ragweed oleoresin,potassium dichromate, certain rubber accelerators,and monobenzyl ether ofhydroquinone. it affords a moderate protectionagainst formaldehyde. no testswere done with patients with formaldehydehypersensitivity. a fair degree ofprotection was obtained by the use of the sprayin housewives eczema presumablydue to irritants present in soap and detergents.

Documento 133: 

chromium, lead, cadmium, nickel and titanium in mice.. effect on mortality, tumors and tissue levels . about 700 mice were given throughout their lives 5 ppm cadmium, lead, chromium, nickel or titanium in drinking water while fed a diet deficient in cadmium and low in other metals . tissue concentrations comparable to those of man were observed . sex differences appeared . mortality of females was unaffected . mortality of males on cadmium, lead and nickel was increased compared with that of the chromium group, and of those on cadmium and lead compared with the controls . longevity of the oldest 10 of both sexes was less in lead and titanium groups, andof males in cadmium group, compared with controls . no metal was carcinogenic,. incidence of tumors in males on cadmium and lead, and in females given nickel was decreased . body weights at death were greater in titanium, chromium and lead groups . large increments of titanium, moderate increments of cadmium and nickel, and lesser increments of chromium and lead were observed in 5 organs, compared with controls . higher concentrations of cadmium and titanium occurred in younger mice and the other metals did not increase markedly in tissues with age . allmetals except chromium exhibited one or more signs of innate toxicity .

Documento 40: 

intradermal test using cobalt chloride . selected groups of patients with cobalt allergy and nickel allergy as well as normal controls were tested intradermally with cobalt chloride in the dilutions 10 to 10 . reactions of the wheal and flare type appearduring the first hours and make the 24-hour reading misleading . the papular response to cobalt chloride 10, when read 48 to 96 hours after the injection, appears to be a reliable test for cobalt allergy . patients with combined nickel-cobalt allergy were excluded from the study, and the question of group reactions is not discussed . nickel allergics give a somewhat stronger reaction than controls to the slightly impure cobalt chloride . it would be preferable if the degree of purity of the cobalt chloride were ten times greater .

Documento 340: 

2078. the pathogenesis of contact eczema dueto detergents for domestic usethe thesis is maintained that eczema dueto household detergents ispathogenically linked with allergic contactsensitization to metallic salts,especially chromium and nickel. in a seriesof 20 cases of contact eczemaattributable to detergents, the existence ofsensitization to these metals wasdemonstrated by the patch test. likewise,in the analysis of 9 samples ofdifferent detergents used for washing,in all of them chromium and nickel werefound to be present in a proportion which,for either of these metals, variedbetween 1 and 5 p.p.m.

Documento 334: 

377. experimental study of sensitization to nickelsensitization was effected by epicutaneousapplication of nickel sulfate in15 guinea-pigs. it was confirmed by theappearance of eczematiform lesions inskin tests with nickel sulfate. for maintenanceof the animals in good generalcondition it was necessary to add vit. c andantiinfective agents to the diet.for this reason the allergenicity of the nisalt had to be augmented by the useof adjuvants (freund's complete adjuvant or alum).such adjuvants act bystimulating the res. the method forsensitization of guinea-pigs to metal saltshaving been worked out, it is now proposedto study the mechanism of suchsensitization, the biological disturbancesinvolved and the possible existenceof cross-sensitizations.

Documento 131: 

a kinetic study of nickel(ii), complexes of sulfur-containing amino acidthe rate expression for the ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (edta) ligand exchange reaction with nickel(cysteine) is.. rate = k(complex) + kedta (complex)(edta) . this two-term rate expression is characteristic of square planar complexes and agrees with the square planar configuration of ni(cysteine) reported on the basis of spectral studies the edta-independent term of the rate expression is an acid-catalyzed term and can be written k (h) (complex) . the value of kn is 2.5 x 10 m sec while the value of kedta is only on the order of 10 -10 m sec . the edta reaction with ni(cysteine) methyl ester) is very similar to the reaction with ni(cysteine) . when the sulfur-containing amino acid ligand contains a thiol ether, the kinetic differences are striking . ligand exchange reactions of edta, triethylenetetramine, and diethylenetriamine with nickel-methionine complexes are several orders of magnitude faster and give products that are mixed-ligand complexes . the results of this kinetic study of amino acid complexes containing sulfhydryl and thiol ether sulfur groups support other studies at equilibrium which suggest sulfur coordination and square planar complexes for the sulfhydryl groups and octahedral complexes with no sulfur coordination for thiol ethers .

Documento 337: 

2596. experimental nickel contact sensitization in manin 16 of 172 male prisoners contact-typedelayed hypersensitivity was inducedexperimentally by repeated application of25% nicl2 in a 0.1% sodium laurylsulphate solution on the skin. test reactionswith 5% nicl2 with occlusionwere found to be irritating. no experimentallysensitized subject demonstratedclinical sensitivity to the metal in his environment.

Documento 129: 

polarographic determination of heavy metals in air samples . the polarograph possesses the required sensitivity and specificity to make it the method of choice for analysis for a variety of heavy metals in air . two commercial polarographs are compared and both found adequate on the basis of analysis for lead . determinations may be made for antimony, copper, lead, cadmium, chromium, nickel, cobalt, manganese, and others .

Documento 335: 

2285. some remarks on the nickel dermatitisby non-occupational contactthis dermatitis represents 2% of theskin diseases observed at theallergologic outpatients department ofthe dermatological clinic of milan.the disorder is more frequent in womenand prefers the thighs (girdles, keys)and the wrist (watch); its incubationperiod is generally long and a peculiarpapulo-vesicular follicular and lichenoid eruption often follows.

Documento 345: 

4790. metal chelates as potential reactivators of organic phosphate poisonedacetylcholinesteraseas part of a study to investigate metal chelates as possible reactivatorsof phosphate poisoned acetylcholinesterase, it is shown that chelates actas inhibitors of the enzyme. in addition, copper and nickel chelates of2-pyridinealdoxime catalyze the decomposition of dfp and sarin. compared to2-pam, however, these chelates are very poor reactivators, probably becauseof an improper alignment of the oxine oxygen in the chelate-enzyme complex.

Documento 348: 

12083. generation of action potentials in single ranvier's nodes of isolatedfrog nerve fibres under the influence of nickel and cadmium ions (russian)by experimenting on single ranvier's nodes of frog isolated nerve fibres itwas shown that, along with a marked prolongation of the repolarizationphase of the action potential (ap), ni and cd ions also caused a rise ofthe critical membrane depolarization level and an increased ap amplitudewith somewhat reduced steepness of its ascending phase. ni and cd ionsrestored the ap generation in the nodes of ranvier altered by a 0.01% procainesolution, by an excess of potassium ions 00mm/1. of kcl) or by slightmechanical injury during dissection. it was only with a reduced naconcentration in the medium that the restoration of ap could be achieved.ni and cd ions considerably slowed down and weakened the cathodal rise of thecritical level and the ap reduction. cysteine (10 -2 to 10 -3 m)eliminated all the effects of the mentioned ions. a suggestion is made that bybinding the sh-groups of the nerve fibre proteins, nickel and cadmium reducethe rate of inactivation and the increase of potassium permeability indepolarization and also weaken the initial inactivation and the increase ofpotassium permeability in depolarization, as well as weaken the initialinactivation of the membrane (i-h), whenever this happened to be raised byprevious influences.

Documento 343: 

189. influence of age, sex and glandular extirpation on muscle carcinogenesisin ratsthe carcinogenic effect of a single intramuscular injection of nickel sulphidein an aqueous suspension to which penicillin g had been added was comparedin male and female castrated, hypophysectomized or intact, rats of differentages. the response seemed most marked in intact females injected when 2 mth.old. castrated or hypophysectomized 2-month old females were lessresponsive. one-month old intact males were more responsive than 2-month or3-month old intact males, 1-month old castrated males, or 1-month oldintact females. more data would be required before firm conclusions could bedrawn from these results.

Documento 528: 

2127. selenium toxicity in domestic animalsthe article, with an extensive bibliography, is a compendium of availableinformation on selenium toxicity in domestic animals. literature revealsevidence of organically bound se being more biologically active, when givenorally to domestic animals, than inorganic se salts. there is also variationin toxicity of organic se analogs. when exposed to ruminal digestion, there isconsiderable reduction of se salts to the relatively biologically inactiveelemental se; which may result in fecal excretion of se, as such, to as muchas 40% of a single oral dose. fluorine, molybdenum, chromium, vanadium,cadmium, zinc, cobalt, nickel and uranium increase se toxicity. arsenic andtungsten give some protection against it. bromobenzene, benzene, andnapthalenemobilize tissue se and stimulate its excretion. since se preparations designedfor topical application in treatment of skin disease have been available forusein both man and dogs, the literature has reported cases of poisoning frommisuseof such preparations. selenium, properly used, can be a valuable therapeuticagent, though certain salts of se must be regarded as potentially toxic.however, there is considerable latitude between therapeutic and/or nutritionaland toxic doses of these salts.

Documento 347: 

2302. the carcinogenic activities of n-hydroxy-2-acetylaminofluorene and itsmetal chelates as a function of retention at the injection sitethe carcinogenic activities of s.c. administeredn-hydroxy-2-acetylaminofluorene(n-hydroxy-aaf) and a variety of its metal chelates indicate that greateractivity locally is associated with a longer retention of the chelates at thesite of injection with a slow release of n-hydroxy-aaf to the surroundingtissue. no tumors were obtained at the sites of 4 injections of n-hydroxy-aaf(3.2 mg. /injection), but 4 and 16 of 20 rats developed sarcomas at thesites of 8 and 16 injections, respectively. the nickelous, cobaltous, ferric,or cupric chelates induced moderate to high incidences of sarcomas with 1 or 4injections; in these cases one-half of the administered n-hydroxy-aaf wasretained at the injection site for 4-50 days. the manganous and zinc chelatesand the potassium salt were less active at the injection site; thehalf-retention times for these ranged from 2.5 hr. to 2.5 days. the comparablehalf-retention time for n-hydroxy-aaf was about 2 hr. injection of the metalderivatives s. c. with short half-retention times resulted in higher incidencesof mammary tumors than injection of the derivatives with half-retentiontimes of 4 or more days. when administered in the food the cupric chelateof n-hydroxy-aaf induced the same spectrum of tumors as n-hydroxy-aaf,but the incidences were lower. while the prolonged retention of the materialat the injection site may account for the greater carcinogenic activities ofthe metal chelates, serious consideration must also be given to the possibleimportance of chelation of carcinogens or their metabolites to cellularconstituents.

			********** Consulta 18:  the toxicity of organic selenium **********

			********** Consulta 19:  excretion of phosphate or pyrophosphate **********

Documento 447: 

2365. the excretion of oestrone, pregnanedioland pregnanetriol in breastcancer patients. i. excretion after spontaneousmenopausethe urinary excretion of oestrone, pregnanediol andpregnanetriol was determinedin a series of postmenopausal breast cancer patientsreceiving no endocrine treat-ment. the steroid excretion was studiedboth in relation to the age of the patientsas well as in relation to the time elapsedsince the last menstrual cycle. the resultsindicate that after an initial slow decreasefrom the age of the menopause onward,the excretion of oestrone and preganediolincreases again. a new maximum wasfound in the group 10-15 yr. after themenopause. the excretion of pregnanetriolhowever, remains relatively constantafter a more rapid fall during the first fewyears after the menopause.

Documento 228: 

urinary excretion of neutral 17-ketosteroids and pregnanediol by patients with prostatic cancer and benign prostatic hypertrophy . urinary neutral 17-ketosteroid fractions and pregnanediol excreted by 21 patients with prostatic cancer, 17 patients with benign hypertrophy, and 59 clinically well subjects were assayed to determine whether differences exist . patients with prostatic cancer and those with benign hypertrophy excreted significantly less androsterone than the clinically well subjects . a disproportionately lower level of androsterone than etiocholanolone resulted in a significantly lower androsterone/etiocholanolone ratio in both groups . the specificity of the findings is discussed . the lower levels of androsterone excreted by patients with benign hypertrophy were associated with an extended period of hospitalization . patients hospitalized less than 5 days excreted androsterone at levels not significantly different from the clinically well subjects . lower levels of androsterone excreted by patients with prostatic cancer were not explained by the presence of metastasis, the duration ofhospitalization, loss of appetite, or other definable differences, when each was considered singly . the possible interrelationships of clinicaldifferences prevent assigning lower excretion levels to the cancer statealone .

Documento 450: 

2820. influence of small doses of corticosteroidson the excretion of pregnanetriol and oestronein a series of patients with breast cancerexcretion of oestrone and pregnanetriolwas determined. with administration ofcorticosteroids oestrone excretion inpostmenopausal women diminished 67%.a decrease of pregnanetriol ex-cretion values was observed as well. evidentlya low oestrone excretion in patientssubjected to corticosteroid therapy is due to adepression of the adrenal function.

Documento 151: 

oophorectomy and cortisone treatment as a method of eliminating oestrogen production in patients with breast cancer . the urinary excretion of oestrone, oestradiol-17b, oestriol, and 17- hydroxycorticosteroids has been estimated in 55 premenopausal and 91 postmenopausal women with breast cancer at various stages of the diseasebefore therapy . the depletion of oestrogen excretion caused by oophorectomy combined with cortisone treatment was studied in the patients with metastasising breast tumours (32 premenopausal and 56 postmenopausal subjects) . patients with disseminating breast cancer excreted significantly larger quantities of oestriol than healthy women of the same age, whether pre- or postmenopausal . the excretion of oestrone and oestradiol-17b was similar in cancer patients and healthy women of corresponding age . oophorectomy reduced the oestrogen excretion not only in premenopausalsubjects but also in quite a number of postmenopausal patients, particularly in those who were still excreting significant amounts of oestrogens . this decrease in the oestrogen output was transient and wasfollowed by a compensatory increase, possibly of adrenal origin . cortisone administered within a month after the oophorectomy at a dosage of 50 mg per day rapidly depressed the secondary rise in the oestrogen output to a level of about 4 to 5 ug/24 h irrespective of the age of the patient . this excretion level was unchanged as long as cortisone was given in an adequate dose, but increased rapidly when the cortisone treatment was discontinued . oophorectomy combined with adequate cortisone treatment seems to offeran alternative to the extensive surgical porcedures undertaken to eliminate oestrogen production in breast cancer patients .

Documento 446: 

3752. steroid excretion in early breast cancerpatients with advanced breast cancerwho subsequently fail to respond to adrenalec-tomy or hypophysectomy have beenfound to excrete abnormal amounts of theurinary metabolites of androgen andcortisol. when similar measurements arecarried out on patients with early breastcancer, it is found that approximately halfthe cases presenting for mastectomy arealso excreting abnormal amounts of thesesteroids. subsequent follow-up shows thatthese cases tend to have a poor progno-sis, and a trial had therefore been startedin which the abnormality is being cor-rected. in addition, it seems possible thatthe deficiency in adrogen excretion mayprecede the onset of the disease. thisproblem is being investigated in a trialinvolving urinary steroid estimations in5000 normal women. the measurementsare being compared with the subsequentdevelopment of breast cancer.

Documento 32: 

excretion patterns of urinary metabolites of estradiol-4-c14 in postmenopausal women with benign and malignant disease of the breast . a study of the excretion patterns of the urinary metabolites of estradiol-4-c1j administered to a group of 43 postmenopausal women, 38 with advanced mammary carcinoma prior to endocrine therapy and 5 with benign mammary dysplasia, is reported . a chromatographic method was employed for the determination of estradiol, estrone, and estriol and other estrogen metabolites . the urinary excretion pattern is defined by(a) the extent of excretion of isotope in each of 3 successive 24-hr. collection periods, (b) the percentage of the urinary radiometabolites enzymatically hydrolyzed, (c) the relative concentration of the several metabolites in the hydrolyzed fraction . wide subject-to-subject variations were found . the metabolites other than estradiol, estrone, and estriol comprised a large portion of the total estrogens excreted . a significantly lower amount of estradiol was noted in the group of women with mammary carcinoma as compared to the amount found in the group of women with benign mammary dysplasia, suggesting that the formergroup metabolizes more rapidly the administered estradiol . although theexcretion patterns of patients who failed to respond to estrogen treatment (nonresponders) differed the greatest from the patterns associated with benign disease, distinctive patterns of the urinary excretion of isotopic estrogens which allowed a statistically significant or clinically useful separation between responders and nonresponders to subsequent estrogen therapy were not discovered .

Documento 229: 

i. urinary excretion of neutral 17-ketosteroids and pregnanediol by patients with breast cancer and benign breast disease . urinary levels of neutral 17-ketosteroid fractions and pregnanediol excreted by 114 women, 56 premenopausal and 58 postmenopausal, were determined . subjects studied were included in 4 premenopausal groups (breast cancer 6, benign breast disease 18, sick control 8, well control24) and 3 postmenopausal groups (breast cancer 21, sick control 17, wellcontrol 20) . levels of androsterone and etiocholanolone excreted by premenopausal patients with breast cancer were significantly less than levels excretedby other premenopausal groups, and they did not differ significantly from levels excreted by postmenopausal patients with breast cancer . disproportionately lower levels of the 11-desoxy-17-ketosteroids than 11-oxy-17-ketosteroids excreted by premenopausal patients with cancer resulted in significantly lower ratios than those found in other premenopausal groups . ratios associated with premenopausal patients with cancer did not differ significantly from those of postmenopausal patients with cancer . lower levels of androsterone and etiocholanolone were not explained bydebilitation .

Documento 29: 

selectivity of protein excretion in patients with the nephrotic syndrome.with a gel diffusion precipitin technique and commercially prepared antisera, urine/plasma ratios of specific proteins were determined . individual protein clearances, expressed as a percentage of transferrin clearance, were plotted as ordinates against respective molecular weights on a log-log graph . a straight line was evident graphically, its constants were estimated by the method of least squares, and the slope, expressed as , was determined . the slope of the line may be saidto express the degree of glomerular selectivity to protein excretion . sixty-five determinations were performed in 48 patients . 45 satisfying the usual criteria of the nephrotic syndrome . 1) those patients with primary renal disease and the nephrotic syndrome who displayed high selectivity types of proteinuria ( greater than the average for the group + 1 sd) usually respond initially to steroid therapy, regardless of the acute or subacute glomerular changes observed on renal biopsy . 2) those patients with chronic renal disease and the nephrotic syndrome display an average and frequently a low selectivity type of proteinuria . 3) there appears to be no characteristic type of selectivity for a given pathologic group of patients with the nephrotic syndrome . 4) the degree of selective protein excretion is not related to the total daily amount of protein being excreted at any one time and remainsfairly constant despite fluctuation in the amount of protein being excreted . 5) there is a slight correlation of borderline significance between the degree of selective protein excretion and the duration of the disease, and the initial para-aminohippuric acid clearance . 6) a statistically significant correlation exists between the initial blood urea nitrogen or inulin clearance and the selectivity type of protein excretion . those patients who were not azotemic and had initially near-normal inulin clearances had an average selectivity type or better . 7) it is suggested that if the adult patient is initially azotemic andhas a grossly abnormal inulin clearance, response to therapy is unlikely, whereas if the blood urea nitrogen is normal and the inulin clearance is near normal, response to therapy cannot be predicted with any degree of accuracy . further studies of adult patients with the nephrotic syndrome are required to substantiate this premise .

Documento 847: 

localization of phosphaturic effect ofparathyroid hormone in nephron of the dogthe renal mechanism and tubular site of the phosphaturic action ofparathyroid hormone were investigated by clearance and stop-flowtechniques in one intact and seven thyroparathyroidectomizeddogs. administration of hormone caused a significant increasein the excretion of phosphate without increasing the filteredload. stop-flow analysis indicated that in the absence of parathyroidhormone most of the filtered phosphate was reabsorbedin the proximal tubule, and that the hormone increased therate of phosphate excretion by inhibiting this reabsorptivemechanism. p32 injected during stopped flow showed no significanttransport across the renal tubule despite the presence ofexcess parathyroid hormone. significant p32 activity appearedin the stop-flow collections simultaneously with the appearanceof new filtrate. there was no evidence that parathyroid hormonemediated a secretory process for phosphate excretion.

Documento 869: 

studies on hydroxyproline excretion and corticosteroid-induceddwarfism: treatment with human growth hormone.two children who had been receiving large dosesof corticosteroids for years and were growing at a retardedrate were treated with human growth hormone.growth rate increased 2.5 to 3-fold and urinary hydroxyprolineexcretion which was initially low increasedto the normal level. when treatment was stopped, growthrate and hydroxyproline excretion decreased promptly.

Documento 448: 

2366. the excretion of oestrone,pregnanediol and pregnanetriol in breastcancer patients. ii. effect of ovariectomy,ovarian irradiation and corticos-teroids.the urinary excretion of oestrone,pregnanediol and pregnanetriol was determinedin breast cancer patients at differentstages of their endocrine treatment. theresults demonstrate that corticosteroidsin substitution doses (cortisone 50 mg. dailyor prednisone 10 mg. daily, divided in 4daily doses) are very effective in depressingthe excretion of all 3 steroids in postmenopausalpatients. this is in agreement withthe clinical impression that these easily toleratedsmall doses of corticosteroids havethe same therapeutic effect as adrenalectomy inpatients with breast cancer. theresults indicate that the ovaries may contributeto the production of oestrogens formany years after the menopause, and that thisproduction is depressed by ovarianirradiation. this is in agreement with the clinicalobservation that ovarian irra-diation has a therapeutic value in postmenopausalwomen with breast cancer.

Documento 725: 

urinary excretion of i131-diodrast injected intraventricularlyin communicating hydrocephalus and aqueduct stenosisnine cases of expansive infantile hydro-cephalus were investigated by injectingsmall amounts of i131-diodrast intra-ventricularly. urinary excretion of thetracer was determined during the first4-5 hours after injection. the cumulativeexcretion of diodrast from the c.s.f. dif-fers in cases with communicating hydro-cephalus from those with stenosis of theaqueduct. the investigation is rapid andeasily performed and has not produced anyside effects.

Documento 87: 

absorbed radiation dose and excretion of cesium-131 in humans . data relating to the effective half-life, absorbed dose of radiation, and excretion rates of cesium-131 have been presented . cesium-131 is anexcellent material for cardiac scanning, since a very low amount of radiation is absorbed -dash a dose of the order of one twentieth that received in diagnostic x-ray studies of the gastrointestinal tract . absorption of radiation can be reduced further by the administration of a thiazide type of diuretic and, probably, by catharsis after the scan .

Documento 593: 

studies with human growth hormoneten dwarfed patients whose short stature was ofvarying aetiology were studied by investigation ofsome of the metabolic effects of human growthhormone, 10 mg. being administered daily for aperiod of 5 to 9 days. the patients were maintainedon a constant diet during a preliminary controlperiod, while receiving hgh, and in 7 patients from2 to 7 days in the post-hgh period. hgh produceda reduction in serum cholesterol, with arebound on withdrawal, in 7; a delayed clearance offat from the blood after a fat load in 9; and theappearance of pre-b lipoprotein in the fasting state,as measured by paper electrophoresis, in all of them.the fall in serum cholesterol and the rebound onwithdrawal of hgh has some relevance to theobservation that hypercholesterolaemia occurs insome hypopituitary patients even in the absence ofhypothyroidism.no change was observed in tests of thyroid andadrenocortical function during the short-term highdosage administration of hgh.hypopituitary patients show a considerableretention of nitrogen on hgh administration, andwe have confirmed the work of prader and hiscolleagues that this provides a valuable diagnostictest for growth hormone deficiency. the measurementof urinary nitrogen excretion after the withdrawalof hgh also promises to be a useful investigationin the differential diagnosis of short stature.nitrogen excretion in the withdrawal phase inhypopituitary children returns slowly to its pre-hghlevels; two non-hypopituitary dwarfedchildren excreted much more nitrogen in the withdrawalperiod than they retained in the hghperiod. one primordial dwarf showed a negligiblechange in urinary nitrogen excretion both in thehgh and in the post-hgh periods.

Documento 694: 

the role of aldosterone and vasopressin in the posturalchanges in renal excretion in normal subjectsand patients with idiopathic edemathe effects of the upright posture(leisurely walking for 2 hours) on half-hourly urine volume, and excretion ofsodium and creatinine were studied in13 normal subjects and 13 patients withidiopathic edema, while they drank 150or 300 ml. of 0.14 per cent sodiumchloride solution every half hour. whenthe 2 hours of walking were comparedwith a preceding recumbent period of4 hours, both groups were found to showa significant antidiuresis upright. theadministration of ethanol during the lasthalf hour of recumbency abolished thefall in urine flow and in free water clear-ance during the first hour of walking inthe normal subjects and significantly re-duced this fall in the patients withedema. sodium excretion in the normalsubjects was slightly but not significantlylower when upright than when recum-bent, but in the edematous patients wassignificantly lower when upright and fellprogressively over the 2 hour period. ad-ministration of spironolactone or d-amphetamine increased sodium excretionduring recumbency in both groups butincreased sodium excretion upright onlyin the edematous patients to equal thatof the normal subjects. creatinine excre-tion was not changed in either group byposture or drug therapy. similar studieswere performed on 5 patients with un-treated diabetes insipidus and on 6 pa-tients with adrenal insufficiency treatedwith hydrocortisone alone. lack of al-dosterone (in adrenal insufficiency) didnot increase the amount of sodium ex-creted above that of normal subjects inrecumbency and did not prevent the oc-currence of significant sodium retentionin the upright posture. however, lackof adh (in diabetes insipidus) delayedthe antidiuresis upright for 30 minutes.the results indicate that adh releaseis probably responsible for the reductionin urine volume during the first 30 min-utes after assuming the upright posture,but not thereafter. the excessive magni-tude of the orthostatic antidiuresis inidiopathic edema probably results froma cause other than adh release, since itis not completely overcome by ethanol.reduced na excretion during 2 hours inthe upright posture can occur in theabsence of circulating aldosterone, butthe abnormal magnitude of the na re-tention in the patients with idiopathicedema probably results from hyperal-dosteronism.

Documento 844: 

actinomycin d and the response to parathyroid hormoneactinomycin d inhibits the effect ofparathyroid hormone upon bone, as measuredby ca mobilization, without alteringits effects upon the renal excretion ofphosphate and ca in rats.

Documento 518: 

3123. effect of sodium selenate on acute poisoning with thalliumexperiments were performed on wistar rats weighing 150-200 g. thallium was ad-ministered s.c. in doses of 20 mg/kg and 30 mg/kg. sodium selenate wasgiven per os in doses of 10 mg/kg 2 hr after poisoning and 5 mg/kg dailyfor the next 2 days. results indicate that sodium selenate protects theanimals from death. it binds the thallium ions and increases their depositionin organs. comparison of the level of thallium in organs of treated ratsshows that selenate increases in liver by 290.6%, in kidneys by 326.8% and inbones by 210.0%. no influence of selenate on excretion of thallium in theurine was found, but fecal excretion of thallium increased by an average of45% of the treated animals.

Documento 554: 

distribution and excretion of radioactivity after parenteraladministration of radioactive polydiethylstilbestrol phosphateto rats and a cow.polydiethylstilbestrol phosphate(psp), a water soluble polyester of phos-phoric acid and diethylstilbestrol, was in-jected in rats and a cow and the distributionand excretion of radioactivity were followedin both species. after a subcutaneous orintramuscular injection the bulk of the radio-activity was accumulated at the site of injec-tion. the disappearance of radioactivity fromthis depot was very slow. as late as 90 daysafter the injection into rats, 20% of theadministered radioactivity was still accumu-lated at the site of injection. the liver wasvery effective in removing labeled materialfrom circulating blood. twenty-four hoursafter intravenous injection in rats, about50% of the radioactivity was recovered fromthis organ. the distribution of radioactivityin the cow indicated that the polymer waspreferably accumulated in organs containingreticuloendothelial cells.

Documento 584: 

bone growth and metabolic studies of prematureinfants treated with human growth hormonethe influence of exogenous humangrowth hormone on growth and metabo-lism of premature infants was observed.it was not possible to register any in-crease of linear bone growth after hormoneadministration; concomitantly urinary hy-droxyproline excretion did not changesignificantly.nitrogen balance studies indicated asharp increase of nitrogen retention, due toa reduced urinary excretion, in all infants.calcium and phosphorus balances rose inthree out of four premature infants treatedwith growth hormone, but the characteris-tic sth calciuric action of sth was notobserved. furthermore, sth failed to in-duce any significant increase in nefaserum concentration of premature infants.it may therefore be concluded that themetabolic response of premature infants tosth differs consistently from that normallyobserved in more mature subjects.

Documento 1018: 

metabolism and excretion of bilirubin c in experimental obstructivejaundice.bile duct ligation was carried out in a series ofrhesus monkeys. the time required for the serum bilirubinto stop rising and achieve a relatively stable level,and the average serum bilirubin reached, paralleled closelythat seen clinically. after the serum bilirubin levelshad stopped rising and a 'steady state' had been reached,radioactive bilirubin was injected i.v. the radioisotope wasdistributed principally extravascularly and not in the sameratio as albumin, as in other forms of jaundice. daily turnoverof bilirubin was found to be double that anticipatedfrom normal hb breakdown, suggesting increased bilirubinproduction in obstructive jaundice. in animals followed for2 wk nearly 80% of injected radioactivity was excreted in theurine, indicating that in obstructive jaundice the kidneytakes over entirely from the liver the function of bilirubinexcretion.

Documento 444: 

5274. urinary excretion of estrone,estradiol and estriol by patients withprostatic cancer and benign prostatichypertrophyand hopkins c.e.urinary estrone, estradiol, and estriolfractions excreted by 21 patients withprostatic cancer, 17 patients with benignhypertrophy, and 59 clinically wellsubjects were assayed to determine whetherdifferences exist. absolute levels ofestrone, estradiol, and estriol fractions werenot significantly different. theexcretion of relatively lower levels of estroneand estradiol, and relatively higherlevels of estriol by patients with prostaticcancer compared to clinically wellsubjects resulted in significantly lowerproportions of the total estrogen beingexcreted as estrone and estradiol. differences inthe proportions of estrogen frac-tions between patients with benign hypertrophyand clinically well subjects werenot significant. with the exception of a significantlyhigher percentage of the totalestrogen being excreted as estrone by the patientswith benign hypertrophy,differences between that group and the cancergroup were also not significant.clinical variations between the 3 groups, andwithin the cancer and hypertrophygroups, preclude assignment of significantdifferences to prostatic dystrophiesalone. cancer patients experiencing inanitiondue to a loss of appetite excretedsignificantly lower levels of estrone than patientswho reported no loss of appetite.significantly lower levels of estrone were excretedby patients with benign hyper-trophy hospitalized 6 days or more compared topatients hospitalized 5 days or less.a significantly higher urinary estrone-androsteroneratio was present in the cancergroup than in the clinically well group. it is notbelieved, however, that an arbi-trary ratio can be used to suggest an internalestrogen-androgen imbalance.

Documento 547: 

absorption and excretion of toxogonin, an alkyl-phosphate antidote,after intramuscular injection in mantolerance, absorption and urinary excretion stu-dies of toxogonin (bis-(4-hydroxyiminomethyl-pyridine-1-methyl) ether dichloride), a specific anti-dote in poisoning by esterase-blocking organicphosphates, were made on 11 men by intramuscularinjection of 250 mg. (ca. 3 mg./kg.) of the drug,given by self-injection ampoules. injections madewith the automatic ampoule autule caused no localirritation. certain facial symptoms reported can forthe time being be regarded as resorptive side-effectsof toxogonin. maximum blood levels of 6 ug./ml.were recorded within 20 minutes. even after fourhours the level was still 1-2 ug./ml., a concentra-tion amply sufficient to ensure reactivation of bloodesterases. of the injected dose, 52% was excretedin the urine after two hours, 87% after eight hours.toxogonin appears to pass through the body un-changed.

Documento 226: 

/urinary 17-ketosteroid excretion study in radiation induced menopause in carcinoma breast./ . (1) urinary 17-ketosteroid estimation results are given in 11 patientssubjected to radiotherapeutic sterilisation . (2) a high dosage level was used in all these cases . (3) results indicate some suppression of ovarian function within 2 weeks of sterilisation .

Documento 1005: 

icterus neonatorum simplex.studies in 50 guinea-pigs demonstrate that atbirth there is no activity of glucuronyltransferase.after birth activity graduallyincreases and reaches its highestlevel on the 3rd day of life. hereafter a gradualdecrease can be shown. the suggestionis made that glucuronyltransferase isan adaptive enzyme. the resultssupport the hypothesis that neonatal jaundiceis caused by an inability of the liverof the newborn to excrete bilirubin.

Documento 147: 

autolysis of bacillus subtilis by glucose depletion . in cultures in minimal medium, rapid lysis of cells of bacillus subtilis was observed as soon as the carbon source, e.g. glucose, had been completely consumed . the cells died and ultraviolet-absorbing material was excreted in the medium . the results suggest that the cellslyse because of the presence of autolytic enzymes . in the presence of glucose the damage to the cell wall caused by these enzymes is repaired immediately .

Documento 528: 

2127. selenium toxicity in domestic animalsthe article, with an extensive bibliography, is a compendium of availableinformation on selenium toxicity in domestic animals. literature revealsevidence of organically bound se being more biologically active, when givenorally to domestic animals, than inorganic se salts. there is also variationin toxicity of organic se analogs. when exposed to ruminal digestion, there isconsiderable reduction of se salts to the relatively biologically inactiveelemental se; which may result in fecal excretion of se, as such, to as muchas 40% of a single oral dose. fluorine, molybdenum, chromium, vanadium,cadmium, zinc, cobalt, nickel and uranium increase se toxicity. arsenic andtungsten give some protection against it. bromobenzene, benzene, andnapthalenemobilize tissue se and stimulate its excretion. since se preparations designedfor topical application in treatment of skin disease have been available forusein both man and dogs, the literature has reported cases of poisoning frommisuseof such preparations. selenium, properly used, can be a valuable therapeuticagent, though certain salts of se must be regarded as potentially toxic.however, there is considerable latitude between therapeutic and/or nutritionaland toxic doses of these salts.

Documento 590: 

effects of short term administration ofhysiological doses of human growth hormonein three patients with turner's syndromeh. e. sjobergthe effect of apparently physiological doses of human growth hormonewas investigated in three patients with turner's syndrome in short termmetabolic balance studies. the subjects presented an abnormal sex chro-mosome constitution and an increased level of sulphation factor activityin serum.two dose levels of hormone were used, and there appeared an anabolicresponse to both. no correlation with dose was obtained for any of theparameters used except for urinary magnesium, where the retention wasgreater with the higher dose. the sulphation factor activity of serum in-creased during hormone administration in the one case studied in thisrespect.the urinary excretion of hydroxyproline was within the normal range inthe two patients studied in this respect, and was not altered by growthhormone.all patients had an increased urinary excretion of creatine which atpresent cannot be explained. the creatinuria diminished during growthhormone treatment.the mechanism behind the retarded growth is discussed. it is suggestedthat a major factor might be a defect in the center for linear growth,i.e. the epiphyses that would make these less responsive to all the factorsnormally stimulating the growth processes in the epiphyseal zones.

Documento 225: 

progynon, a depot preparation with oestrogenic action, in the treatment of prostatic carcinoma . a derivative of a natural oestrogen -dash oestradiol undecylate, progynon-depot -dash was given in depot form by injection to a group of patients with prostatic carcinoma . the study showed progynon-depot to reduce the excretion of androgen metabolites in the urine . the results suggest that the preparation reduced the testicular production of androgens but probably not that of the adrenal glands . the depot effectand clinical action of the preparation are described briefly .

Documento 563: 

effects of alkalosis on plasma concentration and urinaryexcretion of inorganic phosphate in manacute respiratory and metabolic alkalosis havebeen shown to depress plasma phosphorus con-centration in normal man. the fall in plasmaphosphorus concentration is greater in respiratorythan in comparable levels of extracellular meta-bolic alkalosis. this fall is not attributable to in-creased renal excretion or to migration into redblood cells. the evaluation of low serum phos-phorus concentrations should always be carriedout with a knowledge of the ph and total co2content of the plasma.

Documento 560: 

clinical experience withprimary hyperparathyroidism:evaluation of treatmentforty-four patients with "operatively proven" hyperparathyroidism wereevaluated to decide 1) whether or not the diagnosis could be substantiatedby some postoperative observations other than the gross anatomic diagnosisof the operative specimen and 2) what the long term value of operativetreatment would be. it was found that an immediate and significant fallin urinary phosphorus excretion best documented the diagnosis of primaryhyperparathyroidism. over intervals up to 10 years, follow-up of thepatients suggested a favourable response of the disease to operativetreatment.

Documento 441: 

1107. urinary excretion of estrone,estradiol and estriol by pa-tients with breast cancer andbenign breast diseasepremenopausal patients with breast cancerand benign breast disease appear to ex-crete a significantly lower percentage ofthe total estrogen as estrone and a signifi-cantly higher percentage as estriol thanwomen in the premenopausal control group.there was no significant difference in theexcretion of total estrogen between cancergroups and controls in good health.postmenopausal patients with cancer excretedhigher levels of estriol than postmenopausalcontrol groups. the increase in estriolexcretion cannot be explained by debilitation.

Documento 451: 

5062. urinary ii-deoxy-17-oxosteroidsin british and japanese women withreference to the incidence of breast cancerjapanese women excrete more andosterene(5a) relative to aetiocholanone (5b)than do british women living in tokyo. themean 5a/5b ratio in the former is 1.3and in the latter 1.0, and these means differsignificantly. the ratio is markedlyaffected by thyroid function, and thyroiddisease has been reported to affect theincidence of breast cancer which in japan isonly one eighth of that in white womenin north america or great britain.

			********** Consulta 20:  somatotropin as it effects bone **********

Documento 586: 

mammary growth in rats treated with somatotropin duringpregnancy and/or lactationgroups of rats received dailyinjections of 2 mg somatotropin (sth) fromeither day 3-19 of pregnancy or day 1-13of lactation. another group of rats receivedgraded increments (0.5-3.0 mg) of sthevery 6 days during both pregnancy andlactation. other groups of rats served aspregnancy and lactation controls. mammarygland deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) contentwas determined in all rats and milk yieldwas determined in all rats carried to day14 postpartum. significant increases in mam-mary dna occurred in all rats treated withsth irrespective of dose or schedule of in-jections when compared to gestation controls.a significant elevation in mammary dnaabove the lactation control level was alsoevident in rats receiving the hormone andcarried to day 14 of lactation. milk yieldof rats treated with graded increments ofsth was significantly greater than that ofcontrol lactators but milk yield of rats re-ceiving a constant daily dose of the hormonedid not differ from that of controls.

Documento 592: 

influence of hormones on tumor growth and plasma prolactin levels in ratsbearing a pituitary "mammotropic" tumorthe effects of estradiol, cortisol acetate, thyroxine, or thiouracil ontumor growth, organ weights, and plasma prolactin levels were determinedin rats bearing a furth pituitary "mammotropic" tumor (mtt.f4). thistumor is known to secrete large amounts of adrenocorticotropin, somatotropin,and prolactin, but no follicle-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone,or thyrotropin. at the dose levels used, estradiol significantly suppressedtumor growth without influencing body growth, and it partially inhibitedenlargement of the adrenals and atrophy of the thymus. cortisol acetatesignificantly reduced both tumor and body growth. thyroxine had no significanteffect on tumor growth but enhanced the somatotropic effect as indicated byincreases in body growth and organ weights. thiouracil had no significanteffect on tumor or body growth, although it significantly increased thyroidweight. estradiol, cortisol acetate, and thyroxine each increased the plasmaprolactin levels of the tumor-bearing rats.

			********** Consulta 21:  language development in infancy and **********

Documento 821: 

the speech and language abilities ofemotionally disturbed childrenthe speech and language disorders ofthese severely disturbed children can bedivided into two categories which relateto the type of psychiatric disturbance.the autistic-schizophrenic children usedbizarre forms of language or did not usecommunicative language at all. the non-autistic-schizophrenic, the neurotic, theprimary behaviour disorder, and theminimally brain-damaged children as agroup, had similar speech and languageproblems to normal children but of amore severe and frequent nature. theirproblems were predominantly in theareas of speech and language develop-ment, articulation, rate of speech andfluency. the children with primary be-haviour disorders had the more severespeech and language problems.

Documento 810: 

an analysis of the language of fourteenschizophrenic childrenfourteen schizophrenic (autistic) children were studied by means of detailedbehavioural histories and observations.the language recorded in history and observation protocols was analysed andcompared with available data on normal children.all schizophrenic children were grossly retarded in their language developmentand all measures of this correlated highly with a previous overall clinicalassessment of the severity of illness.the most striking abnormalities in the language of the children studied werestereotyped repetition of utterances appropriate to an earlier developmentallevel or to a previous environmental context, accompanied by a lack of normalexpressions of curiosity and of responsiveness to changing environmental cues.

Documento 815: 

language training in the treatmentof the autistic childfunctioning on a retarded levela preliminary study todetermine the effect of language andspeech therapy on the development ofcommunication and the lessening of un-relatedness in a group of non-verbal,autistic children functioning on a retardedlevel is reported. on the basis of the re-sults of the study, it is suggested that theinclusion of language and speech therapytechniques be considered in developing atreatment program for such children.

Documento 888: 

the applicability of individualized programed instructionin the education of deaf children.verbal behavior is learned behavior and assuch is guided by the same principlesas any other learned behavior. the parents'role is mainly to help the young deafchild conceive of language as a socializingprocess and to help shape language behaviortoward the use of verbal symbols.the teacher's role in the deaf child'sprogress as a language user includes (1) helpingthe child discover how the structureof his language operates and (2) guidinghim in the process of acquiring clearconcepts. the learning of a language is a highlyindividualized process and requiresthousands of hours of practice. efficiencyin language teaching to the deafhas not been generally achieved by traditionalmethods. the teacher of the deafneeds extra help in order to provide the individualistickind of teaching to insureverbal over-learning by the child. self-tutoringprogramed materials offer thishelp. programs are so constructed that a childproceeds through the program stepby step with a probability of maximum successbecause of constant feedback as tocorrectness of his responses. for youngerchildren the use of a machine seemsdesirable while for older children the programmay appear in book form, on filmstrip, and any other visual medium. well constructedprograms should be correlatedwith classroom instruction.

Documento 613: 

the acquisition of formal features of languagechildren from different groups do not learn the same uses and functions forlanguage. but every child must learn the formal features, or the "code" forhis language, thus creating a constant in every language acquisition situation.

Documento 896: 

concept development and language instruction.the author describes factors related to,and the errors that may occur in conceptdevelopment in children. the contributionsof language for the deaf child's conceptualdevelopment are stressed. includedare a review of what concepts are, psychologically,and an example of how conceptsmay be presented, educationally, in the classroom.

Documento 890: 

the oral language performance of premature children and controls.fifty-one premature children born in 1955and 1956 were compared with 55 normallyborn subjects with birth weights over2,500 grams. they were tested ontapped patterns, auditory memory span,auditory discrimination, word recognition,language comprehension, articulation,resistance to articulation disintegration,word finding, story telling, number of wordsused, mean length of 5 longest sentences,sentence elaboration, grammaticalerrors, definitions and categories.the mean age of both groups was 5.8 and thepremature children's performancewas inferior to that of children born at term.

Documento 892: 

disorders of communication in young children.the normal development of spoken language isoutlined. the causation, differentialdiagnosis, individual assessment and managementof developmental disorders ofcommunication in young children are briefly discussed.

Documento 619: 

the speech production and spoken language of the deafthe distinction was made between speech production and spoken language inanalysing the oral output of those with hearing impairment. a brief review ofstudies in both areas was undertaken, including the report of a new electronicvisual monitoring device, the glossal transducer. it was postulated that thedeaf utilise a unique visual-to-motor conversion within the brain when speakingand monitor conscously by tactile-kinaesthetic control. the more recentstudies relate to the syntactical features of the speech of the deaf. theseshow that deafness creates telegraphic speech with reduced sentence length andomissions of essential words such as functors. the speech of the deaf seems tocontain mostly nouns and verbs, with a limited number of words used to expandverb forms.

Documento 889: 

the impact of individual differences on language learning.a matrix of extrinsic and intrinsic factors affectinglanguage learning in the prelinguallydeaf child is considered. particularemphasis is placed on the effectsof parental attitudes on both the emotionalstability of the home and on the provisionor restriction of experience.

Documento 616: 

management of communication problems in infants and childrenearly detection and referral of achild with a hearing or speech-language problemis feasible and in most cases, very critical. furtherconsultation can then be obtained and the childplaced on a training program geared to his needs.

Documento 887: 

speech as a landmark in development.it is attempted to demonstrate how observationsof children's speech and languagedevelopment may serve as valuable indicators oftheir general physical, intellectual,and emotional progress. speech lag or breakdownmay corroborate other suspectareas of development or may point the way to them.speech and language disordersseldom originate in the mouth. ideas must precedespeech, and speech is a directcorrelate of intelligence.

Documento 604: 

on language disorders in young children: a reorganization of thinkingcurrent questions and confusions aboutthe use of the term aphasia with referenceto young children seem often toreflect semantic problems accruingfrom professional habits of thinking interms of etiologic and pathologic labels.it is argued that if the term aphasia isgeneralized simply to refer to inabilitiesor interferences in the development oflanguage comprehension and use, thenit is the task of an evaluating group todescribe as well as possible, and in detail,the specific impairments of functionin each child. this task commonlyrequires the use of an extensive periodof "diagnostic teaching," wherein careis taken to explore which sensory andmotor modalities are working andwhich are not, and whether integrationof various stimuli is taking place.some current ideas are discussed withreference to descriptions of impairment,causal factors that are fairly unique inchildhood, some thoughts about theneurophysiology of the human "languagesystem," and some psychosocialfactors important for language-learning.special attention is given to various relations,in terms of temporal resolvingpower, between sensation and sensoryintegration. a scheme, or model, is suggestedwhich may prove fruitful forexperimental design in attacking someof these problems at a prelanguage orpremeaning level. it is argued that theproportion of "unknowns" can be reducedby careful study based on informationabout impaired functions within the sensory-integrative-motor complex,without particular regard for "site andextent of lesion."

Documento 885: 

an unusual form of acquired aphasia in children.an unusual form of acquired aphasia-bothreceptive and executive is describedas occurring in 10 children, 6 girls and 4 boys.the onset occurred between 5 and6 yr. of age with one or more epileptiformattacks-which were not repeated-butwere followed by some degree of hearingloss (later improving), failure tocomprehend spoken language and finally lossor impairment of executive speech.examination of csf and peg yielded normalresults. eeg's were abnormal mainlyin the temporal leads. the disorder appearedself-limiting and throughout non-verbalintelligence was not imparied.

Documento 620: 

cognitive functioning in early infantile autism: an examination of four casesby means of the wechsler intelligence scale for childrenthe results are communicated which were obtained from an examination,by means of the wechsler intelligence scale for children, of four cases ofearly infantile autism. these cases had developed in such a way that areliable investigation by means of a mental test had become possible.according to their full scale iq's the four cases fell within the category ofdull normal intelligence or less. all of them showed a considerablediscrepancy between the verbal and the performance iq, the performance iq beingof much higher value. the composition of the autistic test profiles wascharacterized by a large variability in the subtest scores, discriminating theautistic group significantly from non-autistic control groups. the subtestscore divergencies, responsible for the large variability, showed a distinctpattern, being specific for the autistic group as a whole. this group couldbe considered as a distinct group particularly by a marked tendency to achievepoorly and far below the subject's average level in the subtests comprehensionand vocabulary, and to achieve superiorly and far above that level in thesubtests block design and object assembly. by specifying the mental functions,conditional for success in these four subtests that occupy extreme positionswithin the autistic test profiles, it was concluded that the autistic patientsapparently were able to achieve well, or even superiorly, only if the taskcould be performed on a purely perceptual level. but they failed as soon asan appeal was made to thinking proper. this was thought to be due to adisability in dealing with imaginary things and imaginary situations, or,in other words, to an incapability to objectify what is not actually presentin the subject's concrete situation. it is proposed that this impairmentcould be reduced to a lack of symbolic means, being the correlate of adefective or insufficiently developed language in the patients. it is furtherproposed that children suffering from earlyinfantile autism might not be able,or at a later stage only, to reach that level of language development in whichwords can be used as symbols,representing absent things and absent situations.

Documento 351: 

4544. observations on colour agnosiaa 56-year-old right-handed man, following the formation of a left posteriorsubdural hematoma developed 'spelling dyslexia' and impaired pictureinterpretation, which resolved, and color agnosia, which persisted. the latterimpaired the use both of color information and of the names of the colors.this may be explained as a disorder impairing the recollection and formationof associations between color names and other types of information, withresulting interference in any task in which colors or their names haveto be placed in a specific context. the alternative views of willbrand (1887)that here a limited dysphasia, and of sittig (1921) that a recognition defectis simultaneously present, cannot be excluded. in the present and inpreviously reported cases the causative lesion seems to have been posteriorlylocated in the dominant hemisphere, in the borderland between the areareceiving visual input and the language or verbal recording area.

Documento 914: 

long-term prognosis and the response of schizophrenic childrento drug therapy: a controlled study of trifluoperazine.it is evident from this study that treatment andcontrol groups must be matched for severity of illness,since this affects the responsiveness to pharmacologicalas well as to other types of treatments. the use ofthe double-blind technique does not of itself guaranteea well-controlled study; the comparison of 2 or moretreatment regimes may be misleading if the groups arenot matched, or if the matching is not based on criticalfactors. in this study, both the response to the nonpharmacologicaspects of treatment and the type ofresponse to the drug itself were related to the initialseverity of language impairment. thus the major developmentaldefect which determines long-term outcomefor schizophrenic children in this group also predictedthe immediate responsiveness to treatment. within the2 major prognostic subgroups of young schizophrenicchildren, those with speech and those without, are childrenwith different profiles of disordered developmentand different patterns of assets and handicaps.

Documento 915: 

the long-term treatment of a psychotic child in a psychiatric hospital.description of one phase of the long term psychotherapyof a 6 yr. old psychotic boy, within the frameworkof a mental hospital. the first part deals brieflywith the lay-out and the structure of a new unit for emotionallydisturbed children. underlining the well-knownimportance of the therapeutic milieu in the treatmentand care of the mentally ill particularly important whenthe patients are children. the child presented was diagnosed,when admitted, as a case of severe childhoodpsychosis, of the autistic type. the unusually rich dataat disposal were obtained through non-verbal communication,because the child has no language. nevertheless,he can express himself clearly through play and gestures.the analysis of this precious clinical material focusesthe discussion on the existence and the quality ofan object-relationship preceding the psychosis, the importanceof the 'early unusual sensitivities' in the formationof a premature and fragile ego and the methodof choice in the treatment of childhood psychoses.

Documento 100: 

the ophthalmologist's role in the management of dyslexia . dyslexia is a clinical entity characterized by subnormal reading ability in a person of average or above average intelligence . it is a disease which has different causes in different children . thecauses include brain damage in the /language area,/ hereditary predisposition and such ophthalmic factors as hyperopia, muscle imbalance, aniseikonia or visual immaturity . emotional disturbances, educational immaturity and cerebral dominance may also play some role inthe etiology of this condition . the universal symptom is poor reading ability . however, these cases frequently have other associated symptoms such as poor writing, difficulty in reading and writing numbers, inability to read or write musical notes and disorientation for left and right . many of these patients develop personality maladjustments . visual fields often reveala hemianopia . in any group of poor readers, a large percentage will have ocular, neurologic, psychiatric or psychologic abnormalities and/or a strong hereditary tendency . the degree to which reading can be learned dependsupon the ability of the individual to adjust to the psycho-physiologic needs that are present at the time he reaches /reading age/ in school . if compensating abilities are present, and if the child's reaction is a favorable one, he may read well in spite of unfavorable factors,. if not, he may become a /poor reader/ . these children should be recognizedin their first year of school . a complete medical work-up should be managed by an ophthalmologist . acomplete ophthalmic examination should first be performed and all possible visual anomalies should be corrected . the ophthalmologist may want a psychometric evaluation, a neurologic opinion to determine the role of organic brain damage, psychiatric consultation for evaluation ofemotional disturbances, pediatric consultation for evaluation of the status of the general health and/or consultation by an otolaryngologist to determine the patient's hearing ability . with all the necessary information at hand, the ophthalmologist will be able to recommend corrective medical therapy and to advise the parents and teachers about available remedial reading aids . the prognosis is good for most patients since they are of average or above average intelligence,. nearly all cases can be helped .

			********** Consulta 22:  mycoplasma infection or presence in **********

Documento 654: 

further studies of agents isolated from tissue cultures inoculatedwith human leukaemic bone-marrowd. a. woodsmycoplasmas were isolated from tissue cultures inoculatedwith bone-marrow from leukaemic patients.all cultures which showed a cytopathic effect containedmycoplasmas.there was no evidence of mycoplasmas in control cultures.the mycoplasmas isolated seemed biologically and serologic-ally to be of one strain which was different from any previouslyreported as being isolated from human sources although therewas some relationship to a rodent mycoplasma, m. pulmonis.mycoplasmas cannot readily be distinguished from viruseselectron-microscopically.the relationship of mycoplasmas to leukaemia is not yetclear.

Documento 632: 

recovery of mycoplasmas in the study ofhuman leukaemia and other malignanciesnumerous reports have been published concerning thenecessity of testing for the presence of mycoplasmas beforethe interpretation of experiments performed in cellcultures. such tests are especially important whenthe presence of viruses is suspected, since recent evidenceindicates that some mycoplasmas are capable of elicitinga transmissible cytopathic effect.in addition, some mycoplasmas and viruses shareproperties, such as size, filterability, morphology inelectron microscopy, sensitivity to ether, ability tohaemagglutinate and cause haemadsorption, interferencewith virus replication in vitro, lack of inhibition by certaincommonly used antibiotics and inhibition of growth byhomologous antiserum. thus, the absence of ordinarybacteria and moulds in preparations eliciting a cytopathiceffect in cell cultures is an unreliable criterion for viralidentification. great caution should be exercised inclassifying new agents as viruses, especially as myxo-viruses, without adequate testing to exclude their identityas mycoplasmas.

Documento 642: 

suppression of rous sarcoma virus growth in tissuecultures by mycoplasma oralean agentwhich produced cell destruction in human diploid and chick-embryo fibroblastswas isolated from wi-26 strain of human diploid fibroblasts and shown to be amycoplasma. the multiplication of rous sarcoma virus (rsv) and rous associatedvirus (rav) was inhibited in wi-26, wi-38, and chick-embryo fibroblastsinfected with this mycoplasma. the mycoplasma isolate, designated strain 941,reacted strongly in the complement-fixation test with antiserum to mycoplasmaorale ch19299, an isolate obtained from the human oral cavity. the cytopathiceffect of mycoplasma strain 941 could be eliminated by growing the mycoplasmaon an artificial agar medium before inoculation into chick-embryo fibroblasts.serial passage in chick-embryo fibroblasts restored the cytopathogenicity ofthe agar-grown mycoplasma. however, growth of rsv and rav was inhibited byboth the tissue culture-grown and the agar-grown 941 strain, and also by thech19299 strain which did not produce any cytopathic effect.

Documento 636: 

infectie door mycoplasma hominis bij een pasgeborenemycoplasma hominis infection in a newborn child. --in a babyborn by a difficult forceps delivery, abscesses began to formin the neck a few days after birth. mycoplasma hominis wasrecovered from the pus.

Documento 910: 

effect of mycoplasma on interferon production and interferon assay incell cultures.the influence of mycoplasma on the productionand action of interferon was studied in cultures of bothl and human embryonic kidney (hek) cells. m. hominis1, the negroni agent, and the f12 mycoplasma wereused for infection of l cells, and m. hominis 1 and m.pneumoniae for inoculation of hek cells. all strainswere capable of multiplication in the culture systemsemployed. none produced detectable levels of interferon,and responsiveness of the cells to induction of interferonby virus remained unaltered. infection with mycoplasmadid not impair the sensitivity of the cells to the action ofinterferon, nor was the replication of vesicular stomatitisvirus noticeably diminished.

Documento 909: 

color test for the measurement of antibody to t-strain mycoplasmas.a metabolic inhibition technique for the measurementof antibody to t-strain mycoplasmas was developed,based upon the ability of t-strain mycoplasmas tometabolize urea with the concomitant production of ammonia,and the ability of specific, antiserum to inhibitthis ammonia production. phenol red added to themedium served as an indicator of ph change resultingfrom ammonia production. specific antiserum to t-strainmycoplasma t-960 was prepared. the t-strainorganism was shown to be serologically distinct from therecognized large-colony mycoplasmas. antibody tomycoplasma strain t-960 in human sera was demonstratedwith the metabolic inhibition technique.

Documento 648: 

chromosome changes in human diploid-cell cultures infectedwith mycoplasmathis communication shows that mycoplasma may alsochange cell chromosomes, and therefore emphasizes theneed for caution in interpreting experimental resultswithout adequately testing for the presenceof mycoplasma. chromosome damage similarto that described here has been induced byviruses in cell cultures and in blood cul-tures. chromosomal abnormalities havealso been reported in blood cultures and bonemarrow from leukaemic patients.

Documento 635: 

septicemia due to mycoplasma hominis type 1viola m. young, ph.d., and sheldon m. wolff, m.d.a febrile illness that followed therapeutic abortionand was accompanied by the presence ofmycoplasma hominis type 1 in the blood is described.the patient upon recovery exhibited a specificantibody response to the mycoplasma isolatedfrom the blood, as well as to another strain of thesame serotype. these findings are regarded as additionalevidence for the pathogenicity of m. hoministype 1 organisms, particularly in situations favoringtheir dissemination from the female genitaltract.

Documento 652: 

the serological differentiation of mycoplasma strains (pleuro-pneumonia-like organisms) from various sourcesa complement fixation test with rabbit antisera was used to differentiate 82cultures of mycoplasma from man, mammalian cell cultures, laboratory rats andmice, cattle, goats, poultry, embryonated eggs and sewage.seventeen serotypes were distinguished, 5 from man, 1 from mammalian cellcultures, 4 from rats and mice, 4 from cattle and goats, 2 from poultry and onesaprophytic. most of these corresponded to recognized species of mycoplasma,but 1 of human origin (represented by 1 strain, navel), and 1 from tissuecultures (5 strains), may represent new species. r38, one of the serotypesfrom rats, could be distinguished from the species m. arthritidis, but isprobably an antigenic variant rather than a distinct species. two specieshitherto recognized as distinct m. arthritidis and m. hominis type 2, could notbe distinguished and appear to constitute a single species. these findingsillustrate the necessity, from the viewpoint of taxonomy, of comparingmycoplasma strains by serological methods.the serotypes of human and animal origin were largely host-specific.exceptions were the inclusion of m. arthritidis from rats and m. hominis type 2from man in a single serotype, the finding of a bovine organism among thestrains isolated from goats and of a saprophytic strain in a rat.in relation to the aetiology of disease in man and animals, the isolation ofan endogenous mycoplasma from embryonated eggs used to passage infectivematerial illustrates the importance of identifying these organismsserologically. the demonstration of mixed mycoplasma infections in lesionsin two rats shows the necessity of adequately purifying all cultures ofmycoplasma before examination.

Documento 640: 

serological relationships among human mycoplasmas as shownby complement-fixation and gel diffusionand robert m. chanockantigenic relationships among humanmycoplasmas were studied by complement-fixation and agar gel diffusion techniques. fourrecognized human species. mycoplasma hoministype 1, m. hominis type 2, m. salivarium, andm. fermentans were antigenically distinct inthese tests. in addition, m. pneumoniae (eatonagent, the etiological agent of cold agglutinin-positive atypical pneumonia) was different fromthese four species. although these species weredistinct, evidence of shared antigenic componentswas obtained in complement-fixation and agargel diffusion tests. since rabbits were immunizedwith mycoplasmas grown in rabbit muscle infu-sion broth supplemented with rabbit serum or,in the case of m. pneumoniae, with infected chickembryo lung suspension, the possibility that theheterologous reactions resulted from antibodyto growth medium components could be excluded.four recent mycoplasma isolates from the oro-pharynx were analyzed, and three were shown tobe closely related to m. hominis type 1, and thefourth was closely related to m. salivarium.although the recent isolates could not be dis-tinguished from the related "prototype" humanspecies by complement-fixation, differences couldbe detected by the agar gel diffusion technique.

Documento 913: 

electron microscopic studies of mycoplasma (pplo strain 880) inartificial medium and in tissue culture.mycoplasma strain 880, isolated from a leukemicpatient, was studied in brothcultures and in several cell culture lines.this strain exhibited considerable pleomorphismin size, internal structure, andshape, including forms with filamentousprojections. the most common form observedwas 0.5 to 1 in diameter andhad a nuclear area of fibrillar strands, probablydna. the cytoplasm of the organismscontained ribosome-like granules anda flattened vacuole which indented thenuclear area. there were various other forms,including 'elementary bodies' 100min diameter that were very electron-dense.in the tissue culture lines in whichthe cells grew as a monolayer, the mycoplasmawere closely associated with thecell surface and were occasionally seen inmembrane-lined cytoplasmic vacuoles.in cell lines that did not attach to the glass,the mycoplasma were fewer and notattached to the cell surface. although theultrastructure of this strain is similarto that of previously described strains, thereare differences in details of structurewhich may be related either to the growthconditions used or to characteristics ofthe strain. the various forms of the organismare consistent with the suggestionthat mycoplasma may have several mechanismsof reproduction (growth). the intracellularmycoplasma may be protected fromantibiotics. this would partly explainthe difficulty of eradicating mycoplasma frominfected cell cultures.

Documento 899: 

a color test for the measurement of antibody to the non-acid-forminghuman mycoplasma species.a metabolic inhibition testfor the measurement ofgrowth inhibiting antibodies tothe non-acid producinghuman mycoplasma species isdescribed. the test isbased upon the ability of theseorganisms to metabolizearginine with a resultant alkalineshift in the ph of themedium. the alkaline shift isinhibited by specific antiserum.labile accessory factor(s)present in unheatedguinea pig serum potentiatesthe inhibitory effect of antiserum.the test is sensitiveand specific for the measurementof antibody to mycoplasmasin rabbit immuneand human convalescent serum.

Documento 657: 

chronic respiratory disease in mice and ratschronic respiratory disease (crd) in both mice and rats embraces twoseparate entities, namely: infectious catarrh caused by mycoplasmas(pleuropneumonia-like organisms) and enzootic bronchiectasis by a virus.the two syndromes are discussed in regard to their etiology, pathologicmanifestations, and transmission. particular attention is paid to the relationof mycoplasmas to infectious catarrh. the morphologic and culturalcharacteristics of the catarrhal types of these organisms are consideredfrom the standpoint of differential diagnosis. the importance of crd in themaintenance of breeding colonies and in the use of animals for experimentalpurposes is stressed. methods for the establishment of specific pathogen-freecolonies, as a means of control, are briefly outlined together withobservations on a cesarean-derived line of swiss mice.

Documento 902: 

growth and survival of mycoplasma neurolyticum in liquid media.maximal growth of m. neurolyticum (between10 and 10 colony-forming units/ml)was obtained after 3 days of incubationat 36 c in broth media containing 10% agamahorse serum. when whole horse serumwas used in the medium, a complement-mediatedinhibition was observed. thisinhibition could only be detected when growthwas followed by daily plate counts. maximalgrowth was delayed for about 24 hr bythe horse serum, and the inhibition wasspontaneously reversed at the temperatureof incubation. penicillin g was also foundto have a temporary inhibitory effect.this was detected with as little as 40 units/ml.maximal growth was delayed untilthe 6th day of incubation, when 200 units/mlwas present, and until the 16th day,when 1,000 units/ml was present. thesurvival of m. neurolyticum at undetectablelevels in cultures during the incubationperiod presented an 'eclipse' phenomenonwhich has not been explained. the recrudescenceof growth in such cultures late inthe incubation period illustrates the eventswhich may occur when mycoplasmas areisolated from clinical material by prolongedincubation in the presence of inhibitorssurvival data showed that m. neurolyticumhad greatest stability at ph 8.0, withreduced viability at ph 9.0, 7.0, 10.0, and6.0, in that order. the data on growthand stability suggest a close relationshipbetween the species of mycoplasma studiesand bacteria.

Documento 650: 

epidemiology of mycoplasma pneumoniaeinfection in familiesand ruth mcmahanthe transmission and clinical manifestations of in-fection with mycoplasma pneumoniae were studied in 114families in which there was a case of atypical pneumonia.m pneumoniae was isolated from a throat culture of theindex pneumonia patient in 36 of these families. trans-mission to other family members occurred in 23 of the36 families. in these 23 families, 84% of the childrenand 41% of the adults were infected. the index casesare included. of the total 59 patients with family-contactinfections, 42 had lower-respiratory-tract symptoms, 6had pharyngitis alone, 9 (all children) were asympto-matic, and 2 had probably unrelated symptoms. thetime intervals between cases within a family suggesteda median incubation period of 23 days. treatment withtetracycline seemed neither to cure the symptoms com-pletely nor to abolish the carrier state that often lastedone to three months.

Documento 904: 

a note on the taxonomic status of strains like 'campo',hitherto classified as mycoplasma hominis, type 2.the classification of strains similar tomycoplasma strain pg 27 of 'campo' asmyc. hominis type 2 should be withdrawn.these strains have now been identifiedas myc. arthritidis.

Documento 659: 

mycoplasma species of manat present, six distinct species of mycoplasmasare known to infect man. certain biological andecological properties of these agents have beendefined. one species, m. pneumoniae, has beendefinitely shown to be an important respiratory-tract pathogen, and another species, m. hoministype 1, may play a role in respiratory-tract andgenital-tract disease.

Documento 658: 

further observations of the lymphomasof african childrenduring 1963, cytopathogenic, filtrable agents were frequently encountered incultures of embryonic human kidney cells following their inoculation withsupernatant fluids from primary human amnion cultures which had previously beenexposed to extracts of tumors and other specimens from east african childrenwith malignant lymphomas of the kind described by burkitt and others. theresults seemed noteworthy because they suggested an intimate associationbetween the agents and the disease, and also because of the nature of theisolations which involved two phenomena, an initial induction of a peculiarspindling and twisting of the amnion cells(fig. 1) and subsequently destructive changesin kidney cells inoculated with fluid from such altered amnion cultures. thedirect inoculation of embryonic kidney cells with extracts of tumors or bonemarrow never caused cytopathogenic effects nor did the isolated, transmissibleagents have the capacity to induce the amnion lesions. nevertheless,the two effects were closely associated and clearly related to the specimens.the cytopathogenic agents were later cultivated on protein-rich media andfound to have the characteristics of mycoplasma. they failed to inducetumors in a variety of animals, and serologic tests in which they served asantigen gave suggestive but inconclusive evidence of a relationship to thedisease. the mycoplasma also failed to induce the amnion lesions caused bythe specimens.

Documento 907: 

respiratory virus vaccines. ii. mycoplasma pneumoniae (eaton agent)vaccines.purified and concentrated formalin-killed vaccineswere prepared from m. pneumoniae propagated inserum-free artificial medium. the vaccines wereaqueous or were incorporated in alum or emulsifiedpeanut oil (adjuvant 65) adjuvant. two or 3 differentconcentrations of mycoplasma were included in eachpreparation. serum neutralizing and cf antibody responseswere measured in hamsters, monkeys, and ininstitutionalized persons following 1,2,3 and sometimes4 vaccinations. all of the preparations werehighly antigenic in animals and in man. alum vaccineswere better than aqueous vaccines and those in adjuvant65 appeared to give best results although the bleedingtimes were not always optimal for demonstratingmaximal effect. persons who were without detectableantibody initially and thus would be most vulnerable toinfection gave better responses to the vaccine than didthose with pre-existing antibody. alum vaccine is anacceptable formulation for use in man, and only 2 dosesof such vaccine were necessary to induce neutralizingantibody in 90% of the persons who were initially withoutdetectable antibody. no local or systemic reactionof clinical consequence was noted in any of the personsvaccinated. recent unpublished findings, which indicatea high degree of effectiveness of the alum vaccinein stimulating antibody in preschool children and inprotecting children and adults against the natural disease,are mentioned.

Documento 908: 

isolation of mycoplasma pneumoniae from adults with respiratoryinfections.isolation of mycoplasma organisms from the sputumwas attempted in 254 patients with various syndromeof respiratory disease. isolates were obtained in 56% ofthe 197 patients with pneumonia, 50% of patients withchronic bronchial diseases who were not treated withtetracycline, and 33% of persons with acute upper respiratoryinfection. these differences are not statisticallysignificant and indicate a nonpathogenic role for m.pharyngis and m. salivarium which were the strains mostfrequently isolated. the highest frequency of isolationwas from males 15 to 30 yr. of age. isolation of m.pneumoniae requires one to 2 weeks:therefore, it is notuseful for rapid diagnosis. also, it underestimates theprevalence of infection, especially if patients have receivedtetracycline. of the serologic tests, complement-fixation(cf) was the most specific. the growthinhibition test (tri) was the most sensitive and wassignificantly related to atypical pneumonia. the 2 testsmay measure different antibodies against m. pneumoniae.serum cold agglutinins developed in many casesof pneumonia and were poorly discriminatory in etiologicdiagnosis. m. pneumoniae infection occurred in aminimum of 8% and a maximum of 20% of civilian patientshospitalized for pneumonia during the season studied.serologic evidence for m. pneumoniae was rare inlobar pneumonia. in nonlobar pneumonia, m. pneumoniaeaccounted etiologically for 13% to 50% of cases. the incidenceof m. pneumoniae infection was constant indifferent seasons but greatest relative to the occurrenceof pneumonia in the fall and spring.

Documento 634: 

establishment of a turkey flock free of 'n' strain mycoplasmamycoplasma of the 'n' strain are frequently isolated fromturkey poults affected with airsacculitis but free ofmycoplasma gallisepticum. research on the 'n' strain hasbeen impeded by the presence of a high proportion ofturkey poults with airsacculitis in all breeding flocksexamined, by the difficulty of culturing and identifyingthe mycoplasma strains, and by the lack of a practicalserologic test. this communication describes the establishmentof a small nucleus of 'n'-free turkeys from a commercialbreeding flock known to carry 'n' mycoplasma.hens and toms for the production of 'n'-free poults wereselected from the parent flock by serology and culture.

Documento 644: 

a fatal septicemic disease of infant puppies caused bycytopathogenic organisms with characteristics of mycoplasma.pathogenic organisms were iso-lated from 2 outbreaks of a fatal septicemicdisease of infant puppies and from dog kidneycells that degenerated spontaneously. the iso-lates were indistinguishable serologically andpossessed characteristics of mycoplasma. thepathogenic organisms were cytopathogenic fordog kidney cell cultures, and in inoculatedpuppies, produced pathological changes thatresembled those seen in natural cases. le-sions consisted principally of necrosis andhemorrhage. the isolates were culturally andserologically distinct from recognized caninemycoplasma species.

Documento 633: 

pneumonia due to mycoplasma pneumoniaeits incidence in the membership of a co-operative medical groupruth mcmahan, edmund r. clarke, william a. maccoll, and j. thomas graystona total of 1051 cases of pneumonia occurred in72,992 persons who were members of a medicalco-operative in the period december 1, 1963, todecember 31, 1964. the annual rate of pneumoniawas 12.9 per 1000. isolation of mycoplasma pneumoniaefrom throat swabs was attempted in overhalf the cases reported, and paired blood specimenswere obtained in one third. on the basis of laboratoryexamination of these specimens, the incidenceof clinically recognized pneumonia due to m. pneumoniaewas between 1 and 1.5 persons per 1000per year.although peak rates of pneumonia occurred underfive years of age (45 per 1000) pneumonia due to m.pneumoniae was uncommon in this age group. itwas most common in children five to nine years old,and was frequently the cause of pneumonia in adolescents(ten to nineteen years of age). the rates inchildren in primary school was twice the averageincidence. m. pneumoniae pneumonia also differedfrom the pneumonias of other etiology in that itoccurred throughout the year, with no seasonal excesswhereas total pneumonia showed a predominancein winter.the typical clinical syndrome of the pneumoniasin which m. pneumoniae was isolated was one ofprominent systemic manifestations of headache andfever, but few respiratory symptoms occurred exceptcough. upper-respiratory-tract complaints and anelevated white-cell count were much more frequentin the other pneumonias. the patients with m.pneumoniae pneumonia were almost never hospitalizedbut suffered significant absenteeism. theycame from larger families, usually with children ofschool age. reporting physicians were usually correctin diagnosing these pneumonias as "atypical" or "viral."

Documento 649: 

evaluation of tylosin inpreventing egg transmission ofmycoplasma gallisepticum inchickensthe inoculation of mycoplasma gallisepticum infectiveyolk into the left posterior thoracic air sac of laying chickensresulted in an infection which produced a rate of egg infectionsatisfactory for experimental purposes. culturing of all liveembryonating eggs as well as all dead and infertile eggs wasnecessary to determine the rate of egg infection. tylosin,either injected subcutaneously, administered in the drinkingwater, or employed in an egg-dipping solution, greatly reducedbut did not completely eliminate egg infection. in the 3 eggdipping trials, only 11 isolates of m. gallisepticum were ob-tained from 2329 tylosin-dipped eggs, compared to 400 isolatesfrom 2984 control eggs.

Documento 906: 

fine structure of staphylococccal l-forms.l forms of staph. aureus and bacterial cells wereprocessed by the same technique for electron microscopy.ultrathin sections allowed comparison of structural unitsand indicated that staphylococcal l form units of allsizes lack the rigid cell wall and the compact, fibrillarnuclear area of bacterial cells. the l form units arebound by a typical 'trilamellar' membrane comparableto that described for mycoplasma species. nuclearareas in staphylococcal l forms present a diffuse appearanceand could not be correlated with size of anyparticular structural unit. many small units were seenwithin large bodies and possibly are involved in the reproductiveprocess. no evidence of division by formationof septa or by pinching off of cytoplasmic fragmentswas obtained from the electron micrographs.

Documento 646: 

studies on mycoplasma pneumoniaeinfection in swedensera from 107 cases of pneumonia and 132 cases of milder respiratoryinfection were examined by the cf test against m. pneumoniae antigen.thirty-five patients with pneumonia and 2 patients with bronchitis hadserologic evidence of m. pneumoniae infection. all cases which had asignificant antibody rise with the cf test also showed a correspondingrise with the fluorescent antibody test. m. pneumoniae was isolatedfrom 10 of 18 serologically positive cases. cold agglutinins were demon-strated in 17 of 37 cases (46 per cent) with m. pneumoniae infection.m. pneumoniae infections occurred during all seasons of the year andwere most common in older children and young adults. the clinicalfeatures of the cases with m. pneumoniae infection in this study re-semble those described in similar investigations in other countries.

Documento 660: 

pleuropneumonia-like organismsdespite their small size, the pplo carrythe full complement of the chemical com-pounds and enzymes contained in largerbacteria and in cells. they contain bothdna and rna, and in their independentmetabolism they are essentially like other freeliving cells in contrast to the viruses whichhave no independent metabolism outside theliving host cell. several strains of pplo havebeen cultivated from the mucous membranesof apparently normal human subjects, espe-cially from the respiratory and urinary tracts.until recently, however, definite evidence ofthe association between the pplo and clear-ly defined clinical disease in the human sub-ject was lacking. in 1962 it became evidentthat the so-called eaton "virus," originallyisolated by eaton and his associates in 1944from patients with primary atypical pneu-monia, was in reality a pleuropneumonia-likeorganism. typical pplo colonies are pro-duced on a cell-free agar medium which isenriched by the addition of blood serum oryeast. a number of strains of pplo has nowbeen identified, and in recognition of theirunique characteristics, they have been classi-fied in a separate order, the mycoplasmatales,genus mycoplasma.

Documento 637: 

some intraspecies differences in antigens onthe surface of certain living human cellssurface antigens of several types of living cells of humanorigin were partially characterized with hyperimmune antisera prepared inthe rabbit against living hela cells and living, uncultured, full-term, humanamnion cells. hemagglutination, mixed-agglutination, and direct andindirect immunofluorescence (fab) techniques were employed. withthese techniques and fractional absorption procedures, common and specificcell antigens were detected on the surface of several human living cells:uncultured and primary amnion, two established human cell lines (rp am 1and u amnion) of presumed normal origin and two (hela and hep-2) ofpresumed malignant origin, and human erythrocytes. none of the antigenswere found on nctc 2555 mouse cells. the human cells possessed species-related antigens demonstrable by hemagglutination. after removal ofthe hemagglutinins by absorption with human erythrocytes, antibody in hightiter for the homologous cells was detected by fab methods. in addition,some changes in antigens on the surface of amnion cells during primaryculture were observed. finally, an antigen was found on hela and hep-2cells, by use of anti-hela serum absorbed with human erythrocytes and rpam 1 cells, that was not found on either human erythrocytes, unculturedamnion cells, or on the cells of the two established amnion cell lines. atthe dilutions used in the tests, antibodies to the abo blood group isoanti-gens, forssman hapten, or adsorbed serum proteins could not account forthe antigens detected. the possibility that mycoplasma sp. antigenswere responsible for the reactions was inconsistent with the results. thespecificity of the fab methods on living cells was confirmed.

			********** Consulta 23:  infantile autism **********

Documento 849: 

early infantile autism and receptor processesthe syndrome of early infantile autism is examinedas a function of deviation innear-distance receptor usage. these receptordeviations are compared with normalreceptor hierarchies developing from nearto distance receptor dominance. theavailable information is consistent with theview that early infantile autism involvesearly sensory deprivation. this sensorydeprivation results from an interactionbetween a constitutional deficiency inhibitingcertain reticular arousal functionsand mothering tending to understimulation.treatment of the young autistic child is suggestedincluding stimulation and communicationvia the available near receptorsystems. in the framework of sensory development,directions for the study of earlydiagnosis and treatment are indicated.

Documento 917: 

the problems of infantile autism and psychiatric nosology.in psychiatric literature the syndrome ofearly infantile autism has been dividedinto several subgroups (as, for instance,the subgroup of kanner and the subgroupof asperger) and has been assigned todifferent mental conditions (schizophrenia,psychopathy, neurosis). these distinctionsand classifications are thought to becontroversial, so long as the etiology ofearly infantile autism is unknown. norshould any 'psychiatric school' claim tohave the 'right' concept of schizophrenia,since the etiology of schizophrenia, too,has not yet been discovered. in this particular'pre-scientific' situation of psychiatryit seems more promising to analyzethe individual mental case and to concentrateon clinical symptomatology insteadof discussing arbitrary 'nosological entities'.

Documento 804: 

twins discordantfor early infantile autisma pair of heterozygous twins discordantfor early infantile autism is reported and therelevant literature reviewed. although mani-fest organic factors were ruled out, the twins'physical development was different. a spe-cific emotional etiology was not demon-strated. the few available twin studies offerfindings consistent with the hypothesis thatgenetic factors are relevant to the develop-ment of childhood autism. evidence is alsopresented that impaired acquisition of lan-guage may have hereditary determinants.a second set of probably homozygoustwins are reported who were also discordantfor autism. this second case suggests that,although genetic factors may play a part, insome cases the syndrome of infantile autismappears to be a reversible one. in view ofthis set of twins and of kanner's sibling data,the role of genetic factors remains obscure,and more twin studies properly documentedwith blood typing are needed.

Documento 819: 

gilles de la tourette syndrome in an autistic childa case of gilles de la tourette syndromepresenting an early infantile autism isdescribed. the treatment applied is outlined.

Documento 916: 

comments on a case of infantile psychosis.an account is given of a case of infantilemutism which depended not so much upona true autism as on a withdrawing intohimself as a defence against a dangerous andthreatening environment. there was aspectacular and unusual improvement of thesymptomatology with psychotherapy.

Documento 798: 

incidence of symptoms of early infantile autism insubsequently hospitalized psychiatric patientsthis study was concerned with therelationship between the occurrence dur-ing the first two years of life of symptomsof early infantile autism, as retrospective-ly reported by the mothers of s's andsubsequent adjustment. the mothers of69 unmarried young hospitalized psychia-tric patients were interviewed to deter-mine the presence or absence of each of28 different signs contained in a checklist. the signs represent characteristicfeatures that are reportedly often foundin conjunction with early infantile autism.as a control, 50 mothers of high schoolstudents residing in the community andpresenting no significant adjustment prob-lems were questioned in regard to thevery same items.the results indicated that there weresignificantly more symptoms reported forpatients than for normals, and that thisfinding applied to the overall number ofsymptoms as well as to several subcate-gories of symptoms. the items classifiedunder the heading of "social withdrawal"appeared to be the most sensitive in dif-ferentiating the groups. it was also foundthat 11 of the 28 signs distinguished be-tween the patients and normals, with allexcept one occurring more frequently inthe former group. it was concluded thata significant relationship existed betweenthe reported presence of symptoms thatare often associated with severe and earlyego impairment and subsequent status asa mental hospital patient. this study doesnot provide any direct answer to the ques-tion of what proportion of children withinfantile autism are later able to make anadequate adjustment outside of a mentalhospital.

Documento 966: 

electroencephalographic picture of the infantile hydrocephalus.in 50% of 33 cases of congenital hydrocephalusthe eeg examinations were normal.asymmetry of the eeg recording was themost common abnormality encounteredboth in congenital and in acquired hydrocephalus.none of the children examinedrevealed any focal neurological symptoms.it is concluded that eeg examinations couldbe useful in differentiating congenital fromacquired hydrocephalus, because a normaleeg recording suggested the congenitalnature of the condition.

Documento 1010: 

the surgery of infantile obstructive jaundice.the results of suruga-yamazaki's procedurein 14 cases of congenital biliary ductatresia are reported. postoperative anorexia,diarrhea, or edema due to circulatorydisturbance in the upper extremity havenot been found after this operation. the operationis technically difficult. postoperativefat, protein, and electrolyte metabolismis a problem. in order to obtain betterresults this disease should be differentiatedat an early period. a long-term follow-upand continued study of this problemis required.

Documento 817: 

infantile autism and the schizophreniasin a paper published in 1943, entitled "au-tistic disturbances of affective con-tact," i reported from the children's psychi-atric service of the johns hopkins hospitalobservations of 11 children (8 boys and 3girls) who had in common a pattern of be-havior not previously considered in itsstriking uniqueness. the symptoms wereviewed as a combination of extreme alone-ness from the beginning of life and an anx-iously obsessive desire for the preservationof sameness. i concluded the discussion bysaying: "we must assume that these chil-dren have come into the world with aninnate inability to form the usual, biologi-cally provided affective contact with people,just as other children come into the worldwith innate physical and intellectual handi-caps. if this assumption is correct, a furtherstudy of our children may help to furnishconcrete criteria regarding the still diffusenotions about the constitutional componentsof emotional reactivity. for here we seem tohave pure-culture examples of inborn au-tistic disturbances of affective contact."in my search for an appropriate designa-tion, i decided in 1944, after much groping,on the term early infantile autism, thusaccentuating the time of the first manifesta-tions and the children's limited accessibility.

Documento 724: 

infantile hydrocephalus and hematoma in the posterior fossawe have presented a case of hydrocephalus inan infant, the basic cause being intracranialhemorrhage in the perinatal period. surgical re-moval of a hematoma in the posterior fossa did notgive permanent relief of the raised intracranialpressure. a lumbar air study at this stage dis-closed information that the passage through theintracerebral cerebrospinal-fluid pathways wasnormalized whereas the extracerebral ones stillwere occluded by arachnoiditis. the conditionnecessitated a ventriculo-atrial shunt.

Documento 725: 

urinary excretion of i131-diodrast injected intraventricularlyin communicating hydrocephalus and aqueduct stenosisnine cases of expansive infantile hydro-cephalus were investigated by injectingsmall amounts of i131-diodrast intra-ventricularly. urinary excretion of thetracer was determined during the first4-5 hours after injection. the cumulativeexcretion of diodrast from the c.s.f. dif-fers in cases with communicating hydro-cephalus from those with stenosis of theaqueduct. the investigation is rapid andeasily performed and has not produced anyside effects.

Documento 202: 

stranger and separation anxiety in infancy . anxiety responses to strangers and to separations from mother were studied longitudinally in 19 infants between the ages of three and 23 months by direct observations and by interviews with the mother . benjamin's hypotheses concerning the differentiation and immediate dynamics of infantile stranger and separation anxiety were supported by the findings . differences in onset, period of highest intensity, termination, and ratios in individuals were found between the two anxieties . tests of the relationship between the two anxieties were supportive of deductive predictions made by benjamin . sex differences in intensity of the two anxieties were found .

Documento 253: 

radical operation for ventricular septal defect in infancy . ventricular septal defect is the most common congenital anomaly of theheart in infancy, and has a poor prognosis . we have operated upon 18 infants all under one year of age for ventricular septal defect . there has been successful repair in 16 cases . at present, hypothermia with a surface cooling method has proved to besuperior to the artificial heart-lung machine because of the simplicity and the good operative results with its use . in addition, early operation during the infantile period will cause less psychological impact on infants . these advantages are sufficient for us to advocate radical operation of ventricular septal defect in infancy, even including the severely ill children .

Documento 822: 

a study of childhood schizophreniaand early infantile autism(part i--description of the sample)following a period of observation ofthree months' duration, a group of twelveautistic schizophrenic children were se-lected for a treatment program. thegroup was selected on criteria whichwould allow a reasonable chance of suc-cessful treatment in a group homo-geneous enough to allow statistical con-siderations to be valid.younger age, average intellectual func-tioning, presence of an intact family inor near to metropolitan toronto and afirm diagnosis of autistic schizophreniawere the limiting factors.rather distinct differences were notedin this treatment group as opposed to thelarger observation group. the dis-tinguishing characteristic was undoubted-ly the speech abnormalities present.

Documento 620: 

cognitive functioning in early infantile autism: an examination of four casesby means of the wechsler intelligence scale for childrenthe results are communicated which were obtained from an examination,by means of the wechsler intelligence scale for children, of four cases ofearly infantile autism. these cases had developed in such a way that areliable investigation by means of a mental test had become possible.according to their full scale iq's the four cases fell within the category ofdull normal intelligence or less. all of them showed a considerablediscrepancy between the verbal and the performance iq, the performance iq beingof much higher value. the composition of the autistic test profiles wascharacterized by a large variability in the subtest scores, discriminating theautistic group significantly from non-autistic control groups. the subtestscore divergencies, responsible for the large variability, showed a distinctpattern, being specific for the autistic group as a whole. this group couldbe considered as a distinct group particularly by a marked tendency to achievepoorly and far below the subject's average level in the subtests comprehensionand vocabulary, and to achieve superiorly and far above that level in thesubtests block design and object assembly. by specifying the mental functions,conditional for success in these four subtests that occupy extreme positionswithin the autistic test profiles, it was concluded that the autistic patientsapparently were able to achieve well, or even superiorly, only if the taskcould be performed on a purely perceptual level. but they failed as soon asan appeal was made to thinking proper. this was thought to be due to adisability in dealing with imaginary things and imaginary situations, or,in other words, to an incapability to objectify what is not actually presentin the subject's concrete situation. it is proposed that this impairmentcould be reduced to a lack of symbolic means, being the correlate of adefective or insufficiently developed language in the patients. it is furtherproposed that children suffering from earlyinfantile autism might not be able,or at a later stage only, to reach that level of language development in whichwords can be used as symbols,representing absent things and absent situations.

Documento 203: 

mental retardation related to hypercalcaemia . for more than 20 years a number of retarded children and adolescents have been observed who show points of striking similarity . we recognisein them a well-defined type that is clearly distinguishable from other forms of mental deficiency . they are therefore described in detail . some of the children have had infantile hypercalcaemia but it is assumedthat other aetiological factors are also involved . there is a characteristic facies and usually congenital heart disease ordination is poor . there is a constant failure to thrive in infancy,with episodes of vomiting, often with constipation . mentally the children also show great similarities . their iq is about 40-50 but theyshow outstanding loquacity and a great ability to establish interper- sonal contacts . this stands against a background of insecurity and anxiety .

Documento 706: 

ventriculo-venous shunts for infantile hydrocephalusa review of 48 hydrocephalic patientstreated with atrioventricular shunts during a5-year period has been presented. we havediscussed function of the shunt, complica-tions of the procedure, and revisions neces-sitated by nonfunctioning. the overall 75per cent survival rate and 14.3 per cent in-fection rate is comparable to that in otherseries. the major cause of death in our pa-tients has been infection.our experience to date supports the ob-servation that spontaneous arrest of the hy-drocephalic process does not occur once aventriculo-venous shunt has been estab-lished.meticulous introduction of a ventriculo-venous shunt appears to be the present treat-ment of choice for patients with severe hy-drocephalus. results are only satisfactorywhen the patients are carefully followedand complications recognized and treatedpromptly.

Documento 800: 

on early infantile psychosis.the symbiotic and autistic syndromesin conclusion, i wish to state that thecore of child psychosis mustbe sought in one or the other of thedescribed distortions of the sym-biotic phase. in the first case, what layat the heart of the psychotic dis-turbance was the marked emotionalunavailability of the mother,which alternated with a purely physicalextreme closeness during thebreast-feeding situations, and particularlywith the destructiveness ofthe mother's unpredictable rage attacks.the contrasting experiencesdrove the child to the autistic wardingoff of any human contact andthe de-animation of the world of reality.constitutional factors couldnot, in this case, be evaluated with anydegree of accuracy.in the second case, it was, by contrast,the mother's ever-presencethat created an unendurable instrusionupon and interference withthe structuralization of the budding ego,which constitutionally andperhaps predispositionally may have beenvery vulnerable. this madeit impossible for the infant to experiencethe normal alternation ofthe gratification-frustration sequences athis own pace; it also madethe process of individuation in theseparation-individuation periodone which was beset with abysmal panic.in both instances, we can see that it wasprimarily in the severe dis-tortions of the normal symbiosis that thechild psychosis had its roots.

Documento 809: 

infantile autism: a family approachthe autistic child appears to be unable to integrate or to respond tostimuli, both from an internal source, the body, as well as from externalsources, such as human contact. we have noted in the children at ourresidential treatment center how in their preliminary period with us theyappear to be unaware of their body; they give the impression of beinginsensitive to pain, display little autoerotic behavior, inflict injury onthemselves, such as hitting their heads against objects and biting their ownbodies, with little outward display of distress. in working with thesechildren in therapy, one of the guideposts for change and for growth is adisplay on the child's part of an increased body awareness and autoeroticbehavior. for example, one child who developed polio during his early stayat the clinic residence did not communicate this to anyone and it was onlymade known by observing the child's dragging one leg (memorial guid-ance clinic, 1959). later, he was able to point to his body and to indicatepain. another child, who at first seemed to be quite unaware of both himselfand others, concurrent with his growing display of affective expressiontoward the therapist also manifested pleasure through genital stimulation,was quite ticklish, and when injured would display the area of pain quitereadily.

Documento 797: 

toilet training of an autistic eight-year-old throughconditioning therapy: a case reportoperant conditioning techniques have been successfullyused in the treatment of a wide variety of be-havioral problems including hysterical blindness (bradyand lind, 1961), tics (barrett, 1962), psychoticsymptoms (lindsley, 1956; 1960, 1961), reading disabilities(rachman, 1962) stuttering (flanagan et. al.,1958) enuresis (mowrer and mowrer, 1938; lovibond,1961, 1963a, b) and encopresis (neale, 1963;madsen, 1965). neale (1963) successfully treated threeout of four encopretic children using operanttraining techniques. in the case of one 9-yr-old boy, withan 18 month history of encopresis, going to thetoilet was rewarded by a candy, praise and recording theevent in a special book in the boy's presence.soiling was not inadvertently rewarded (e.g. attention) orpunished; the boy would be given a clean pairof pants without comment. neale reports that response totreatment was rapid and complete and 6 monthsafter toilet training there had been no relapse in bowel habits.procedures similar to those used by neale were used inthe case reported here. positive and, in asmall number of instances, negative reinforcement were usedto toilet train an 8-yr-old boy diagnosed bya child psychiatrist/neurologist as having infantile autism.

Documento 812: 

the autistic child in the school and theschool-nurse teacher responsibilityautistic children demonstrate a more persistent pattern of retreatingfrom reality than is apparent in those children categorized as normal.some psychologists have established the cause of symptoms in the autisticchild as extreme anxiety which forces withdrawal from social contact.such anxiety is reported to have its initial occurrance during the agerange of one to five years. a sense of security which is considered es-sential for a child is gained through overt manifestations of love, care andapproval of those adults most closely associated with him. when thisneed is not satisfied, the child's attempts at self-realization and esteemare deterred or thwarted, and a state of anxiety may result. the severityof the anxiety may be the forerunner of a schizophrenic disorder. sucha condition can develop in a child, an adolescent or an adult. schizo-phrenia, a serious mental illness, is considered to be a major cause foradmitting patients to mental institutions.another school of thought has placed infantile autism in the categoryof a disturbance resulting from abnormalities of development during theintrauterine period. such a congenital condition is not categorized asmental retardation.yet another concept of autism conceives of the problem as the absenceof an innate ability or capacity for developing meaningful contacts withother people. a detachment of varying degrees persists where humancontacts are concerned.

Documento 811: 

a behavioural and electroencephalographicstudy of autistic childrenshort biographies are given of 10 children,age 3 to 6 years, diagnosed as suffering fromkanner's syndrome (early infantile autism).an analysis was made of the free-field acti-vities of these children compared with a groupof normal children of similar age. electro-encephalographic studies were also carried outon all 10 children, and in two it was possibleto carry out simultaneous behavioural andeeg observations by means of telemetry.the children were observed for three minuteperiods in four environments of varyingcomplexity: a. an empty room; b. the sameroom with toy wooden blocks present; c.blocks plus passive adult; d. blocks plus activeadult. except in a the visual fixations andmanipulatory activities were of significantlyshorter duration in the autistic children thanin the normals, lacked clear 'cut-off' pointsand showed relatively little variability betweenenvironments. the autistic children as awhole showed virtually no constructive play incontrast with the normals, though moretime was spent in contact with play materials inthe social environments. changes in thetime spent in locomotion, gesturing, block-playand manipulation of other objects in theenvironment showed that the autistic childrenwere acutely responsive to changes in theirenvironment, including the presence of the socialstimulus. if the autistic children weresubdivided into those who characteristically showedstereotypies and those who did not, thelatter sub-group showed a behaviour structure whichwas very similar to that of the normals,whereas the stereotypy sub-group was clearlydifferentiated from both the normal childrenand the non-stereotypy sub-group.eight autistic children had waking eegrecords characterized by low voltage irregularactivity without any established rhythms;one child, a record containing irregular alphaand another unstable theta activity. two ofthe children with 'flat' laboratory eegs showedmore rhythmic, higher voltage records whentheir eegs were telemetred in environment a.they also showed less stereotyped behaviour.in environments b and d they showed pro-gressively more irregular eeg activity andmore stereotypy.the hypothesis is advanced that autisticchildren are in a chronically high state of physio-logical arousal. the findings of the presentstudy and those of other workers are discussedwith respect to this hypothesis.

			********** Consulta 24:  compensatory renal hypertrophy stimulus resulting **********

Documento 936: 

compensatory structural and functional changes in the kidney.the radiographic assessment of the renalsize and the factors influencing renalhypertrophy are discussed. the importanceof compensatory hypertrophy and itsprognostic significance is emphasised.the changes are correlated with renal functionas measured by the glomerular filtrationrate and renal plasma flow.

Documento 940: 

the influence of thyroid hormone on renal function during the courseof compensatory hypertrophy.during the course of compensatory hypertrophyof the kidney, glomerular filtrationand renal plasma flow increased to a lessextent in thyroidectomized animals thanin control animals. the secretory capacityof the renal tubules of thyroidectomizedanimals increased insignificantly duringcompensatory hypertrophy, but increasedmarkedly after administration of thyroid hormone.

Documento 852: 

renal and adrenal relationshipsin compensatory hyperplasiathe compensatory renal hyperplasia thatnormally follows unilateral nephrectomyis abolished by bilateral adrenalectomy ifrats are maintained on fresh drinkingwater, but is restored when saline drinkingwater is provided or if such animals areinjected with doca. the adrenals are alsoimportant for the increased proliferationcaused by unilateral hydronephrosis. theseexperiments suggest that the role of theadrenal cortex in renal hyperplasia may be tosecrete mineralocorticoids, whichpromote the retention of sodium and therebystimulate cell division in the kidneys.

Documento 667: 

compensatory renal enlargementhypertrophy versus hyperplasiaafter unilateral nephrectomy in the mouse, the compensatory growthof the remaining kidney is characterized by an increase in rna andprotein synthesis within the first hour. dna synthesis remains un-changed for about 18 hours and then rises to a maximum at 48 hours. bythe end of the fifth day, when dna synthesis has passed its peak and isin decline, cellular hyperplasia has accounted for only one-fourth of theincrease in kidney weight. thus it is shown that cell hypertrophy is boththe primary and the predominant response in the early phase of compen-satory renal enlargement.

Documento 939: 

thyroid and pituitary gland activity during compensatory renalhypertrophy.autoradiographic studies with tritiatedthymidine showed an increased synthesis ofdna and cellular proliferation of thethyroid and pituitary during compensatoryrenal hypertrophy.

Documento 938: 

the effect of nortestosterone phenylpropionate on compensatoryhypertrophy of the remaining kidney after unilateral nephrectomy.forty-eight hr. after unilateral nephrectomy,both in non-castrated and in castratedmale mice the relative dry weight of theremaining kidney increased significantly.this compensatory hypertrophy was significantlystimulated as early as 96 hr. afteroperation by treatment with 19-nortestosteronephenylpropionate (= npp) at thetime of operation. the percentual increaseof the kidney weight was approximatelythe same in non-castrated as in castratedmice. the absolute initial values as wellas the resulting values 96 hr. after operationwere higher in non-castrated malemice than in castrated animals. the numberof cells and the dna concentration perg. tissue decreased during the period ofnon-stimulated compensatory hypertrophyin both groups of animals. npp caused a stillfurther decrease. the concentrationof dna per cell did not change. followingnon-stimulated compensatory hypertrophy,there was no change in the rna concentrationper g. tissue or per cell in castratedmice. in non-castrated mice the concentrationincreased. npp caused approximatelythe same percentual increase of rnaconcentration in non-castrated as incastrated animals during the period of compensatoryhypertrophy. the difference betweenboth groups of mice in the rnaconcentration in the remaining kidneyfollowing stimulation of the compensatoryhypertrophy by npp was statistically significant.

Documento 850: 

studies on compensatory renal hypertrophy. i. effect ofunilateral ureteral ligation and transectiondata are presented comparing the relative rateof compensatory renal hypertrophyand hyperplasia of the control kidney of ratsfollowing either unilateral ureteraltransection, ligation, or nephrectomy. the growthof the control kidney on the unoperatedside was strikingly slower after ureteraltransection and ligation whencompared with that resulting from the removalof one kidney. progressive hydronephrosiswas observed on the operated side followingureteral transection andligation and was more pronounced in the latter.degree of hypertrophy of the controlkidney showed a close correlation with degree andduration of the hydronephrosis ofthe kidney on the operated side. these observationshave been interpreted as indicatingthe operation of a control system regulatingkidney growth in response tochanges in some way related to kidney size.

Documento 674: 

experimentelle nierenvergroberung nach unilateralernephrektomie bei rattenuntersuchungen mit 3h-thymidinin this paper it is attempted to clarify certain questions as to the mechanismof compensatory renal hypertrophy by means of histological, cytological, andautoradiographical examinations in nephrectomy experiments on young and grownrats. based on the results of this investigation the process of compensatoryrenal hypertrophy must be imagined as follows:as early as two hours after unilateral nephrectomy, a distinct increase of themitosis index without a simultaneous increase in dna-synthesizing cells wasobserved in the remaining kidney. it is assumed that a cell division ofpolyploid cells is involved, which were in a prolonged premitotic rest phase.after a latent period of 48 hours, the dna-synthesizing cells and dividingcells start to increase. the maximum of the regenerative processes is reachedbetween the 3rd and 4th day after nephrectomy. twenty days after unilateralnephrectomy, the regenerative processes are largely concluded.all tubule sections participate in the compensatory renal hypertrophy.although the regenerative processes are most marked in the central section,one cannot speak of the development of an actual indifference zone in theregenerating kidney.in young test animals, compensatory renal hypertrophy is determined moreby mitotic cell division, in older test animals more by polyploidizationprocesses.the results of these investigations provide no certain indications for theassumption that amitotic nuclear divisions play a major part in compensatoryrenal hypertrophy.proliferation processes which in extent and localization run parallel to theregeneration of the parenchyma, are also observed in the cells of theconnective tissue of the renal vessels.

Documento 668: 

cell proliferationin experimental hydronephrosisand compensatory renal hyperplasiamitosis counts and autoradiographic counts of nuclei labeled withtritiated thymidine were made in the renal cortex of male rats in whichthe left ureter was ligated. these were compared with correspondingcounts in the remaining kidney after left nephrectomy, and in sham-operated controls 24, 48 and 72 hours after operation. the cortex ofthe kidney on the obstructed side showed a greater number of tritium-labeled nuclei and mitotic figures than in the kidney undergoing com-pensatory hyperplasia. epithelial and interstitial cells responded simul-taneously on the obstructed side, whereas in the remaining kidney afternephrectomy, the epithelial response preceded a slight interstitial re-sponse by 48 hours. the contralateral kidney in rats subjected toureteral ligation showed no response.we concluded that the early response of increased dna synthesisand cell division in the obstructed kidney was not mediated by humoralfactors; it was localized and probably had a different mechanism thanthe proliferative response occurring in compensatory renal hyperplasia.

Documento 678: 

the role of age and x-irradiation on kidneyfunction in the mousefemale mouse kidneys show a decline with respect to age in the ability toconcentrate the urine during a 24-hour water fast. x-irradiation early inlife has no measurable long-term effect on this process.kidney cortex slices of old female mice can concentrate p-aminohippuricacid against a concentration gradient equally as well as slices from youngmice. there is no loss in this ability by cortex slices from young or oldfemale x-irradiated mice.it is uncertain whether compensatory renal hypertrophy after unilateralnephrectomy declines with age in nonirradiated mice. x-irradiation doescause a reduction in the degree of compensatory renal hypertrophy in the agingmouse. this reduction may represent a loss in the ability of kidney cells toundergo cell division.the administration of testosterone propionate to old mice during compen-satory renal hypertrophy results in an increased hypertrophy. the increase isrelatively the same for irradiated and nonirradiated mice, indicating the lackof a long-term effect of x-irradiation to reduce the ability of a targetorgan to respond to a hormone.the over-all conclusion of this study, with respect to "radiation-inducedaging," is that x-irradiation of the female swiss mouse early in life does nothave a pronounced effect on kidney function late in life but may have a long-term effect on those processes concerned with cell division.

Documento 233: 

time course of changes in surface tension and morphology of alveolar epithelial cells in co2-induced hyaline membrane disease . atelectasis and hyaline membranes produced by exposure of guinea pigs to 15 percent co2 were found to be associated with disappearance of lamellar bodies in the large alveolar lining cells (granular pneumocytes) and an associated decrease in surfactant as indicated in the rise of minimal surface tension of the lungs . this process is limited to the uncompensated phase of respiratory acidosis and is reversed during the compensatory phase . the parallel time course in changes of surface tension and alterations of lamellar bodies in the granular pneumocytes provides additional evidence for the identificationof the latter as the cells responsible for the secretion of surfactant .

Documento 680: 

the juxtaglomerular cells of the kidney and thezona glomerulosa of the adrenal cortex inthe sodium losing and the hypertensiveforms of virilizing adrenalhyperplasiapathological and biochemical observationsare presented in two cases of virilizing ad-renal hyperplasia: one of the sodium-losingtype and the other of the hypertensive type.examination of the kidneys revealed hyper-trophy of the juxtaglomerular cells in thecase exhibiting excessive sodium loss. theadrenal cortex showed hypertrophy of thezona glomerulosa. it is hypothesized thatthe chronic state of sodium loss causedchanges in the intravascular compartmentwhich led to compensatory activity of thejuxtaglomerular cells with resultant stimula-tion of the zona glomerulosa.examination of the hypertensive case(known to involve a different enzyme defi-cit) showed hypertrophy of the zona glom-erulosa without hypertrophy of the juxta-glomerular cells. the intrinsic overproduc-tion of sodium-retaining steroids associatedwith the genetic defect in this clinical formcould account for both the hypertensionand the absence of hypertrophy of the juxta-glomerular apparatus.

Documento 670: 

cell proliferation in compensatory renal growthrats with one kidney removed showed a progressive increase in weight of theremaining kidney over a six-week period.autoradiographic and radiochemical studies with 3h-thymidine indicated that theincrease in new kidney cell formation was maximal forty-eight to seventy-twohours after unilateral nephrectomy. this early response was chiefly due to theproduction of new cells by the renal cortical tubules. normal rates of tubulecell turnover were achieved two weeks after operation. the glomerular tuftscontained fewer new cells and their peak production was delayed to theone-week period with a slow decline thereafter.rats forty-eight hours after unilateral nephrectomy were chosen as a model tostudy the effect of various substances on the magnitude of new cell formation.the number of dna-synthesising cells in the stimulated kidney was reduced bytreatment with hydrocortisone, acth, 9,10-dimethyl-1,2-benzanthracene, and1,2-benzanthracene; the numbers were increased by the administration ofdeoxycorticosterone and aldosterone.

Documento 686: 

chemical aspects of compensatory renal hypertrophythe effect of unilateral nephrectomy on the size and composition of theremaining kidney has been investigated in rats. in normal rats the rightkidney is, on the average, significantly heavier than the left and has ahigher total content of dna and rna. the 2 kidneys have almost identicalratios of rna/dna and protein/dna. after unilateral nephrectomy the survivingkidney increases steadily in wet and dry weight for the 1st 4 days after theoperation. this is accompanied by a much slower increase in total dnacontent and by a dramatic increase in rna/dna ratio.the rna/dna ratio in kidney is also affected by diet, being higher on ahigh-protein than on a low-protein intake. moreover, the rise in rna/dnaratio that follows unilateral nephrectomy is greater in animals fed ahigh-protein diet. the changes in kidney weight and in total contents of dna,rna, protein, and lipid phosphorus resulting from the feeding of a high-proteindiet were found to be of approximately the same magnitude as those in theremaining kidney 4 days after unilateral nephrectomy. the rna/dna andprotein/dna ratios are also greater in rats fed a diet containing 10% urea,but the increase is much less than that in the remaining kidney afterunilateral nephrectomy.

Documento 943: 

auto-radiographic studies of the protein metabolism of the singlekidney in the nephrectomized rat.rats were subjected to unilateral nephrectomy,following which the protein metabolismof the other kidney, which exerteda compensatory activity, was studiedwith h-labelled l-phenylalanine, at differentintervals (3hr. to 7 wk.). twophases of enhanced incorporation of amino-acidsinto the cells of the convolutedtubules were found, with one maximumafter 6 hr., at which time the uptake islimited to the cytoplasm, and a 2nd maximumon the 4th day, when the nucleus isequally involved. in the course of the 2ndphase of enhanced amino-acid uptake,there is also an increased mitotic indexof the epithelia of the tubules. in thecollecting tubules, there was only one phaseof enhanced amino-acid uptake, with amaximum on the 4th day, also coincidingwith an increased mitotic index. theincrease of the number of cells of the kidneywas determined by a study of the variationsof the mitotic index. the meanmultiplication factor in the beginning amountsto 1.6. the protein metabolism is increased1.3 times. the increase of the volume(factor 1.3) and the increase of the proteinmetabolism per unit of volume (factor 1.3)of the hypertrophic kidney result in atotal increase of the protein metabolismof 2.1 times, once the adaptation processis complete, so that the residual kidneyhas approximately the same proteinmetabolism as 2 normal kidneys.

Documento 110: 

visual neglect . clinical trainees in nursing and in psychology from boston college andsimmons college, boston, mass., collected data and observed patients under the direction of the authors in a pilot program designed to measure visual spatial neglect and to develop rehabilitative material . these measurements and exercises might also be used by nurses in their care of those patients who have had cerebral vascular accidents . the diversity of daily activities in which the patient becomes involved during his hospitalization should provide some indication of the extent to which the compensatory visual neglect therapeutics have been effective . more formal estimates can be obtained by re-administering the battery of visual neglect tests at periodic intervals . nursing personnel adopting a program of therapeutics such asthis must bear in mind that patients suffering cerebral insult are usually less adaptive than their nonbrain-injured peers . they develop new habit patterns slowly and regression often will follow apparent fixation at a more adaptive level of response habituation(11) . however,experimental inquiry has shown that the dimension of behavioral difference between the brain-injured adults and normal adults is one of degree rather than kind -dash a difference that skilled nursing can often reduce(12) .

Documento 151: 

oophorectomy and cortisone treatment as a method of eliminating oestrogen production in patients with breast cancer . the urinary excretion of oestrone, oestradiol-17b, oestriol, and 17- hydroxycorticosteroids has been estimated in 55 premenopausal and 91 postmenopausal women with breast cancer at various stages of the diseasebefore therapy . the depletion of oestrogen excretion caused by oophorectomy combined with cortisone treatment was studied in the patients with metastasising breast tumours (32 premenopausal and 56 postmenopausal subjects) . patients with disseminating breast cancer excreted significantly larger quantities of oestriol than healthy women of the same age, whether pre- or postmenopausal . the excretion of oestrone and oestradiol-17b was similar in cancer patients and healthy women of corresponding age . oophorectomy reduced the oestrogen excretion not only in premenopausalsubjects but also in quite a number of postmenopausal patients, particularly in those who were still excreting significant amounts of oestrogens . this decrease in the oestrogen output was transient and wasfollowed by a compensatory increase, possibly of adrenal origin . cortisone administered within a month after the oophorectomy at a dosage of 50 mg per day rapidly depressed the secondary rise in the oestrogen output to a level of about 4 to 5 ug/24 h irrespective of the age of the patient . this excretion level was unchanged as long as cortisone was given in an adequate dose, but increased rapidly when the cortisone treatment was discontinued . oophorectomy combined with adequate cortisone treatment seems to offeran alternative to the extensive surgical porcedures undertaken to eliminate oestrogen production in breast cancer patients .

Documento 675: 

abscopal effects of whole-bodyx-irradiation on compensatory hypertrophyof the rat kidney.the weight and dna content of normal growing (i.e., intact), andhypertrophying (i.e., following uninephrectomy) rat kidneys wereobtained from several hundred sprague-dawley white rats. theeffect of whole body x irradiation with 500 rad and local irradiationto the kidney with 1000 rad, was then determined by following therate and degree of hypertrophy and the dna content of the kidney.when calculated on the basis of body surface area, a constant ratioof kidney weight and of kidney dna was found in the normal, non-hypertrophying kidneys of 5-12 week old rats. after 21 days ofhypertrophy these values increased approximately 50 per cent overnormal in rats 4-6 weeks old at the time of nephrectomy. foranimals 6-14 weeks old at the time of nephrectomy the correspondingincrease was only about 20 per cent.following uninephrectomy and x irradiation with 1000 rad to theexteriorized remaining kidney, 4 week old rats whose bodies werelead-shielded during irradiation showed no body weight growthretardation, no significant difference in the dna content of thekidney, and a small but significant decrease in weight incrementof the hypertrophying kidney after 21 days.rats exposed to 500 rad of x rays with the kidney shielded duringirradiation, when compared with nonirradiated controls, showed bodyweight growth retardation, a reduction in the dna content of thekidney, and a reduction in the amount of kidney hypertrophy 21 daysfollowing uninephrectomy. a still greater inhibition of both kidneycompensatory hypertrophy and the increase in dna content of thekidney occurred after 500 rad whole body irradiation.food restriction in nonirradiated 4 week old rats resulting inbody weight growth retardation, elicited a marked reduction inkidney weight and in dna content of the hypertrophying kidney 21days after uninephrectomy.it is concluded that the reduction in kidney hypertrophy followingwhole body x irradiation with 500 rad is due in some measure to anabscopal or indirect effect, secondary to decreased body weight.

			********** Consulta 25:  use of chlorothiazide diuril or **********

Documento 791: 

sustained palliation inovarian carcinomamanagement of 64 cases of advancedovarian carcinoma has been analyzed.an attempt is made to compare thevalue of radiation and the value of chloram-bucil, using salvage time and sustained pal-liation as end points.chlorambucil, an outpatient oral medi-cation, appears to be as efficacious as ra-diation in advanced ovarian carcinoma.chlorambucil may be used before orafter irradiation therapy.pleural and peritoneal effusion respondfavorably to chlorambucil 80% of the time.the possibility of using a differentdosage schedule is discussed.

Documento 60: 

comparative bone marrow study using two aspiration needles and two biopsy sites . bone marrow aspiration is now widely used in the diagnosis of hematologic diseases and many conditions not primarily affecting the blood system . a number of techniques have been devised by which a suitable specimen of marrow can be obtained with relatively little discomfort to the patient . the two needle sets described in this paper have been found to be equally reliable in obtaining bone marrow for microscopic study and diagnosis . comparative studies of bone marrow aspirated simultaneously from the iliac crest and the sternum in 26 patients show no significant difference . however, there were four instances of dry tap at the iliac site . this fact, in addition to the observation that less discomfort was experienced by the patient when thesternum was used, might indicate that the sternal area is a more reliable and efficient site for obtaining bone marrow . it was also observed during this study that patients experienced less discomfort when the university of illinois needle was used . the major objection to the use of this needle is the inability to obtain a bone core for biopsy .

Documento 530: 

1846. anaphylactic tests in model tumour antigen investigationsthe efficacy of anaphylactic tests in detecting'tumor' antigen in serum was investi-gated. a simple model of a tumor-antigenstudy was carried out using rat tissueand rat serum, with bovine y-globulin (byg)acting as a mock cancer antigen. itwas found that if byg (absolute dosage 100ug.) had formed 1/6 of the antigen mix-ture used for sensitization it was readilydetected when present in a concentrationof 10-3 in the serum used for challenge,but not invariably detected in a concentra-tion of 10-4. if byg (absolute dosage 50ug.) had formed approximately 1/50 of thesensitizing mixture, it was infrequentlydetected even when present in the challeng-ing serum in a concentration of 10-2. itis concluded that anaphylactic tests used inthis context do not have a very highsensitivity or discriminatory capacity.

Documento 135: 

the expression of urine analysis results -dash observations on the use of a specific gravity correction . urine analyses are very useful for measuring the extent of exposure tocertain toxic substances . the types of specimen obtainable from personsemployed in industry, and the effect of concentration variations are discussed . in expressing the results of analysis it is shown that a concentration correction is essential . the correction based on specificgravity is the easiest to apply . the mean specific gravity for persons resident in the u.k. has been found to be around 1.016, a figure considerably lower than the mean of 1.024 used by many workers (particularly in the u.s.a.) . the implications of this on the results of urine analysis are indicated .

Documento 413: 

4088. the use of hypothermia and dehydration in the treatment of severecerebral hypoxiathe rational for using hypothermia orcerebral dehydration is to suppress or re-verse progressive or delayed cerebraldamage after hypoxia. it is suggested thatdamage of this nature results from injuryto the astroglia and oligodendroglia,especially the former. experimental andclinical evidence favors lowering of thebody temperature immediately after anyepisode of hypoxia accompanied by impor-tant damage to the brain. the rationalfor using dehydration is insecure and itsresults are uncertain. this treatmentshould probably be reserved for cases inwhich a raised cerebrospinal fluid pressurehas been proved, and in which othermeasures, especially hypothermia,are either not available or have failed.

Documento 65: 

induced tumour resistance in rats . the human sarcoma hs has been grown in weanling rats treated with cortisone . this growth was modified by prior injection of various tissue antigens . active /immunity/ was produced by using human placentaor embryonic tissue as antigen, and similar results were obtained using suspensions of rapidly growing human tumours . the response to other human tissues varied.. foetal muscle and spleen were active, whereas adult plasma was inactive except from some patientswith extensive malignant disease . passive protection was produced by using certain human sera at the time of challenging with hs . sera from five women who aborted showed this characteristic . where the pregnancy continued to term, antisubstances were not found,. and they were present in the puerperium in only two out of fifty cases . further groups of rats were given rat embryonic tissues as antigen, and the tumour challenge was then made with walker tumour,. the results were variable . with a benzpyrene-induced tumour in a pure line of /wag/ rat the effect was not obtained except in isolated cases . in experiments in mice, using as challenge an irondextran induced mouse sarcoma, prior injection with embryonic mouse liver or placenta increased the resistance to the growth of the tumour, but the tumour hasnot as yet been produced in a pure-line mouse . on the other hand mouse experiments, using as challenge the crocker tumour, proved negative . it is suggested that immune reactions may play a part in causing some abortions .

Documento 695: 

the use and mode of action of ethacrynic acidin nephrogenic diabetes insipidusthe use of diuretic agents in the treatmentof nephrogenic diabetes insipidus had been re-ported to result in decreased urine volumeand decreased clearance of free water. astudy of the use of ethacrynic acid, a potentsaluretic agent, was instituted in patientswith nephrogenic diabetes insipidus in anattempt to achieve a significant antidiureticresponse while allowing a liberal sodium diet.intravenous ethacrynic acid resulted in de-creased urine volume, decreased clearance offree water and decreased rpf and gfr.prolonged oral administration of ethacrynicacid promoted a significant antidiuretic re-sponse when the daily sodium intake waslimited to 60 meq. the effect of ethacrynicacid on renal function, potassium and chlo-ride excretion, and uric acid metabolism arediscussed.

Documento 339: 

670. steroid aerosol spray in contact dermatitis.prophylactic use withparticular reference to nickel hypersensitivityproper use of topical aerosol dexamethasone(decadron) spray affords completeprotection to patients with nickel sensitivity.this clinical result isconfirmed by the results of patch testingnickel-sensitive patients with a5% nickel sulfate solution and nickel coins.a combination of dexamethasone andan isopropylmyristate film is necessaryfor successful prophylaxis; theindividual components alone do not protectthese patients. clinical and patchtest results indicate that a moderate degreeof protection is afforded topatients with paraphenylenediamine sensitivity.patch test results indicatethat the spray does not protect againstpoison ivy and ragweed oleoresin,potassium dichromate, certain rubber accelerators,and monobenzyl ether ofhydroquinone. it affords a moderate protectionagainst formaldehyde. no testswere done with patients with formaldehydehypersensitivity. a fair degree ofprotection was obtained by the use of the sprayin housewives eczema presumablydue to irritants present in soap and detergents.

Documento 548: 

the study of osteoporosisand osteomalaciaradiological evidence strongly suggests thatosteoporosis (with the possible exception of acuteimmobilization osteoporosis) may be an irrever-sible condition. the changes therefore to beexpected in calcium balance when an osteoporoticis treated are small compared with those oftenseen in osteomalacia. methods of obtaining moreaccurate calcium balances are needed to showthese small changes, especially when a highcalcium intake is used. the method of continuousmarking of stools with chromium sesquioxideseems to provide just such a method. using thismethod, it has so far proved impossible to obtainprolonged large positive calcium balances inosteoporosis on either high calcium intake,anabolic hormones, or sodium fluoride.two alternative therapies to vitamin d havebeen explored for use in vitamin d-resistantosteomalacia. atp has been found to be inneffective.intravenous phosphate alone has been ineffectivein producing positive calcium balances, but iseffective as a complement to vitamin d undercertain conditions.

Documento 624: 

interpretation within the metaphoranalytic investigation of the use of the metaphor was first given impetusby ella freeman sharpe (1950), who explored the symbolicmeaning of particular metaphoric phrases with reference to the bodyand libidinal needs. currently, interest has become focused upon theuse of the metaphor as a self-conscious, rational therapeutic techniqueof communication, of particular value with those patients who havereached "the borderline of sanity". ekstein (1961) and ekstein andwallerstein (1957) have emphasized that the use of the metaphorshould be regarded as an essential technique for gradually establishingcommunication and initial insight with borderline and schizophrenicpatients but that it must not be regarded as a treatment techniquein itself. it is but a preliminary approximation to the final therapeuticact, which ultimately will consist of a classical interpretationat the level of the secondary process. the use of the metaphor derivesits primary value from maintaining contact with patients who areconstantly in danger of being inundated by a break-through of primary-process material.

Documento 935: 

a study of induced renal hyperplasia using autoradiography.to establish a base line for futureautoradiographic investigations, compensatoryrenal hyperplasia was studied using tritiatedthymidine. labelled cells were infrequentin the tubular tissues of control kidneys.in the kidneys remaining after unilateralnephrectomy there was a 5- to 6-foldincrease in the cortex and a 12- to 13-foldincrease in the medulla of labelled tubularcells over the numbers seen in controltissues. the findings obtained here are inagreement with the observations made inearlier investigations with routine methodsof staining and mitotic observation.

Documento 194: 

comparison of ultraviolet sensitivity of bacillus subtilis bacteriophagespo2 and its infectious dna . deoxyribonucleic acid extracted from a clear plaque mutant of the temperate phage, spo2, was infectious when incubated with competent cultures of bacillus subtilis 168 m . the relationship between numbers of infectious centers and dna concentration was linear . the sensitivity of the infectious dna to ultraviolet light was much greater than that of the free phage when b. subtilis 168 m was used as host . acriflavin, which inhibits host cell reactivation, increased the rate of ultraviolet inactivation of the free phage so that it approachedthe inactivation rate of the phage dna . acriflavin had little effect onthe survival curves of the infectious dna . non-host reactivating mutants (hcr ) of b. subtilis 168 m were isolated . the survival curves of spo2 phage were much steeper when the hcr mutant was used as a host than those obtained when the hcr parental strain was used as a host . ultraviolet sensitivity of the phage dna was still greater than that of the free phage even when b. subtilis hcr was used as host, but the difference in sensitivity was much less than the difference obtained with b. subtilis hcr as a host . possible explanations for the greater ultraviolet sensitivity of the infectious dna are discussed .

Documento 960: 

cerebrospinal fluid dynamics in the arnold-chiari malformation.a method using radio-iodinated serum albuminto measure the volume of the ventricularsystem, and the rate of disappearanceof csf from the lateral ventricles, hasbeen described. newborn infants with a rateof flow less than 70 ml. /24 hr. aftersurgical repair of the myclomeningocelewill develop progressive hydrocephalusrequiring a ventriculo-atrial shunt. thetest can be used to detect the patency of aventriculo-atrial shunt, and may allow saferemoval of the shunt in selected patients.

Documento 996: 

treatment of cancer by bacterial toxins.the initial experience with toxin therapy forsarcoma and melanoma is reported in3 groups of patients: toxins used as an adjunctto operation in potentially curablepatients, palliative treatment for metastatictumor and toxin therapy supplementedby radiotherapy for localized symptomatictumor masses. the experience has notbeen encouraging in the first 2 groups. in 6of 8 patients in the 3rd group there wasmarked objective remission of tumor subsequentto irradiation. further study isindicated in the use of radiotherapy following'priming' with bacterial toxin injections.

Documento 336: 

3200. studies on the binding of protein by nickel.with special reference toits role in nickel sensitivitythe reaction between nickel and proteinswas studied using the technique ofequilibrium dialysis. in most of the experimentscrystalline bovine serumalbumen was used. the nickel-protein complexwas of low stability, the quantityof nickel bound by the protein being dependenton the concentration of freenickel ions, the ph, and the particular protein used.the sites of binding ofthe nickel ions were primarily carboxyl and aminogroups. the author concludedthat it was unlikely that nickel behaved as ahapten capable of initiating anallergic response.

Documento 788: 

esophageal obstructionthe use of an endoscopically inserted tube in thecare of esophageal carcinomaour experience suggests that the en-doscopic insertion of intraluminal tubesprovides a relatively simple and reason-ably safe method of dealing with someof the problems which arise in the man-agement of patients with esophageal car-cinoma. such tubes would appear to beof particular use in handling the prob-lems of obstruction and regurgitation inpatients with incurable tumors, but mayalso be helpful in preparing severelydebilitated patients with esophageal car-cinoma to withstand the rigors of opera-tion and radiation therapy.

Documento 951: 

treatment of diabetes insipidus: synthetic lysine vasopressinnasal solution.twenty patients with vasopressin-deficientdiabetes insipidus were treated with anasal solution of synthetic lysine vasopressin.use of the nasal spray 2 to 8 timesdaily controlled polyuria in all patientswithout recurrence of the side effectsoccasionally observed with posterior pituitarypreparations of animal origin. onepregnant patient was well controlled to termwithout undesirable uterine stimulation.because of its ease of administration,the absence of significant waterretention (if used judiciously) and the freedomfrom potentially serious allergicreactions to foreign protein, this syntheticpreparation is recommended for clinical use.

Documento 814: 

shadow therapyshadow therapy was developed at sunlandtraining center in gainesville, florida, because of communica-tion difficulties with disturbed, psychotic children. it was con-jectured that subjects would reveal their anxieties and conflictsmore readily in a simulated night situation.the therapy was conducted in a darkroom with projectorlight used to produce silhouettes and their accompanyingshadows as additional stimuli. twelve subjects attended. inthis article, the reaction of a child who was autistic and severelydisturbed is used as an illustration of subject reactions. in theplayroom, he exhibited static behavior; in the darkroom, re-gressive-transcendential behavior. he also transcended his usuallevel of vocalizing and socializing.

Documento 261: 

radioisotope photoscanning as a diagnostic aid in cardiovascular diseasea safe, simple method for diagnosing pericardial effusion and aneurysm .radioisotope scanning is a safe, simple, and useful method for the diagnosis of pericardial effusion and aortic aneurysm . the whole-body radiation dose, approximately 25 millirads from 300 of i 131-sodium iodipamide, is no greater than the dose received from a standard posteroanterior chest roentgenogram or a blood volume determination . there are no side effects or complications from the procedure, and it iswell tolerated by the patient . the scan can be repeated at intervals toassess progress of the disease or response to treatment . cardiovascularscanning with radioactive isotopes can be recommended as a useful and safe diagnostic tool .

Documento 928: 

visual versus tactual receptor preference in normal and schizophrenicchildren.receptor preferences between visual or tactualstimuli were measured in schizophrenic and normalchildren; 4 pairs of standardized choice situations betweenvisual or tactual stimuli were used, with the timeof engagement with either stimulus constituting thepreference measure. schizophrenic children between theages of 7 and 9 were compared with same aged normalchildren. a group of retardates were used for ma control.schizophrenics were significantly lower in visualpreference than the same aged normals, and an age trendfor increased visual preference was found in the normalsample. retardates showed greater visual preferencethan schizophrenics of comparable ma. some implicationsfor theory of schizophrenia were discussed.

Documento 253: 

radical operation for ventricular septal defect in infancy . ventricular septal defect is the most common congenital anomaly of theheart in infancy, and has a poor prognosis . we have operated upon 18 infants all under one year of age for ventricular septal defect . there has been successful repair in 16 cases . at present, hypothermia with a surface cooling method has proved to besuperior to the artificial heart-lung machine because of the simplicity and the good operative results with its use . in addition, early operation during the infantile period will cause less psychological impact on infants . these advantages are sufficient for us to advocate radical operation of ventricular septal defect in infancy, even including the severely ill children .

Documento 297: 

10642. the effects of antioxidants on high pressure oxygen toxicityseveral commonly used antioxidants havebeen tested for their effect against poison-ing due to high pressures of oxygen (ohp).the tests used were preconclusive pe-riod and survival time of mice at 5 atmabsolute oxygen, lung damage in rats ex-posed to 5 atm oxygen for 1 hr., and postohp paralysis in rats following deeppentobarbital-na anesthesia and ohp at 4atm for 30 min. 2,5-bis (1,1-dimethyl-propyl) hydroquinone gave excellentprotection against ohp toxicity in all tests,and several other antioxidants alsoprotected against ohp toxicity but their potencyand effectiveness varied for thedifferent criteria of oxygen poisoning tested in theexperiments.

Documento 391: 

1671. the use of 99m tc pertechnetate in cardiac scanningtechnetium 99m pertechnetate has been utilizedin the aas' laboratory for scanning thecardiac blood pool. the delineation of the heartpool and surrounding vasculatureis comparable to that obtained with the standard131 i compounds now in use. in theauthors' hands 99m tc had the following advantagessince they routinely utilized99m tc for brain and thyroid scans, it is available,eliminating the purchase andshelf decay of other materials. three to 5 mc quantitiesmay be administeredwith relatively low patient radiation dosage. theassociated high count rate permitsrapid scanning. the identification of pericardial effusionsis enhanced by the radio-activity in the stomach which in some cases becomesabnormally separated fromthe cardiac blood pool.

Documento 392: 

2012. the use of technetium 99m as a clinical tracer elementthe physical properties, metabolism andradiation dose of tc 99m are discussed andcompared with those of i 123, i 125, i 131 and i 132.it is shown that with tc 99m the highest'in vivo' counting rates are obtained for agiven internal radiation dose, so that mea-surements of high statistical accuracy maysafely be made. the y-ray energy is nearoptimum for scanning and the observation oftransients allowing light-weight collima-tors to be used. while tc 99m tagged albuminis considered superior to risa for ap-plications such as brain scanning, placentographyand the measurement of cardiacoutput, i 123 if it becomes available will be preferablefor thyroid scanning.

Documento 628: 

heterogeneity of the 'cleft palate population' and research designsthe primary point made in this paper is that we must reject the notionthat there is some inherent, universal commonality among individualswho are born with a cleft lip and/or cleft palate. we must recognize thevarious pertinent subgroups within this population. this does not mean,however, that one must always recognize the smallest subgroup in doing agiven study. on the contrary, we would defend the use of fewest possiblesubgroups consistent with the specific research purpose. nevertheless, wefeel that time spent considering the purposes of a study and the subgroupswhich need to be identified will tend to minimize the number ofcontradictory results, and will assist us in the interpretation of theobservations that our insight and technology make possible.

Documento 53: 

hypothermia.. physiologic effects and clinical application . a survey of the background, physiologic effects, indications, technique and complications of hypothermia is presented . the application of this technique is straightforward and safe when used at the proper levels with the proper indications .

Documento 604: 

on language disorders in young children: a reorganization of thinkingcurrent questions and confusions aboutthe use of the term aphasia with referenceto young children seem often toreflect semantic problems accruingfrom professional habits of thinking interms of etiologic and pathologic labels.it is argued that if the term aphasia isgeneralized simply to refer to inabilitiesor interferences in the development oflanguage comprehension and use, thenit is the task of an evaluating group todescribe as well as possible, and in detail,the specific impairments of functionin each child. this task commonlyrequires the use of an extensive periodof "diagnostic teaching," wherein careis taken to explore which sensory andmotor modalities are working andwhich are not, and whether integrationof various stimuli is taking place.some current ideas are discussed withreference to descriptions of impairment,causal factors that are fairly unique inchildhood, some thoughts about theneurophysiology of the human "languagesystem," and some psychosocialfactors important for language-learning.special attention is given to various relations,in terms of temporal resolvingpower, between sensation and sensoryintegration. a scheme, or model, is suggestedwhich may prove fruitful forexperimental design in attacking someof these problems at a prelanguage orpremeaning level. it is argued that theproportion of "unknowns" can be reducedby careful study based on informationabout impaired functions within the sensory-integrative-motor complex,without particular regard for "site andextent of lesion."

Documento 797: 

toilet training of an autistic eight-year-old throughconditioning therapy: a case reportoperant conditioning techniques have been successfullyused in the treatment of a wide variety of be-havioral problems including hysterical blindness (bradyand lind, 1961), tics (barrett, 1962), psychoticsymptoms (lindsley, 1956; 1960, 1961), reading disabilities(rachman, 1962) stuttering (flanagan et. al.,1958) enuresis (mowrer and mowrer, 1938; lovibond,1961, 1963a, b) and encopresis (neale, 1963;madsen, 1965). neale (1963) successfully treated threeout of four encopretic children using operanttraining techniques. in the case of one 9-yr-old boy, withan 18 month history of encopresis, going to thetoilet was rewarded by a candy, praise and recording theevent in a special book in the boy's presence.soiling was not inadvertently rewarded (e.g. attention) orpunished; the boy would be given a clean pairof pants without comment. neale reports that response totreatment was rapid and complete and 6 monthsafter toilet training there had been no relapse in bowel habits.procedures similar to those used by neale were used inthe case reported here. positive and, in asmall number of instances, negative reinforcement were usedto toilet train an 8-yr-old boy diagnosed bya child psychiatrist/neurologist as having infantile autism.

Documento 82: 

cesium-131 uptake and distribution in the human heart.. an analysis of cardiac scans in 104 patients . when properly used, cesium-131 is a satisfactory agent for the study of cardiac morphology by photoscanning, which we believe is a useful adjunctive diagnostic procedure in patients for whom the results of other methods of evaluation are at variance with the clinical symptoms of cardiac disease . the studies reported here suggest that perhaps infarction of a subclinical type, size, or location may occur earlier than has been previously thought and that the damage it leaves may not be detectable by any means other than autopsy or a technique such as scanning . we have not yet been able to measure the actual concentrationof cesium-131 in the heart at autopsy so that the cold and cool areas could be examined by histologic sections .

Documento 463: 

4417. value and significance of the prednisolone test in diseases of the kidneytwelve normal subjects, 18 cases oftubulo-interstitial nephropathy, 12 cases ofglomerular nephropathy and 17 casesof other renal disorders were investigated.all patients were given a prednisolonetest, with urine culture before and after thetest, and in many instances determinationof the urinary osmolarity; the urinarysediment was examined with the sternheimerand malbin staining technique andwith the peroxydase stain to investigate theurinary cytology. with the criteriaadopted, the test was negative in the normalsand was positive in 61.1% of the casesof chronic pyelonephritis and in 12.1% of theremaining cases of unequivocally non-infectious renal disease. the increase of theurinary bacterial count after cortico-steroid administration, and investigation of thevarious components of the urinarysediment also supplied useful diagnosticinformation. on the contrary, the stern-heimer-malbin stain for the urinarysediment proved of little use.

Documento 613: 

the acquisition of formal features of languagechildren from different groups do not learn the same uses and functions forlanguage. but every child must learn the formal features, or the "code" forhis language, thus creating a constant in every language acquisition situation.

Documento 286: 

632. pulmonary alveolar proteinosis. a study using enzyme histochemistry,electron microscopy, and surface tension measurementlung biopsies from 4 patients with pulmonary al-veolar proteinosis were studied using histochemical me-thods, electron microscopy, and surface tension mea-surement. the lipid-rich intraalveolar fluid containedmaterial with the staining reactions and ultrastructureof phospholipid. although many alveoli were lined byenzymatically active, secreting granular pneumonocy-tes, extracts of proteinotic tissue were not surfaceactive, and, in fact, inhibited normal surfactant. someof the cells free in the intraalveolar material were de-generating sloughed granular pneumonocytes. at themargins of the lesions were lipid-filled macrophageswhich appear to play a role in the removal of the mate-rial. these observations indicate that alveolar protein-osis is not a primary overproduction of surfactant andare consistent with the concept that the alveolar clear-ing process is defective in this disease.

			********** Consulta 26:  methods for experimental production of **********

Documento 974: 

comparative values of thick drop and concentration methods detectionof filaria infection.blood was drawn from the finger and veinin 246 students from 11 p.m. to 2 a.m.to compare the diagnostic efficacy of thickdrop method vis-a-vis concentrationmethod. infection rate was found to be thesame (2.5%) by both methods, and 5students harbouring infection were found tobe positive by both methods. infestationrate in the concentration method washigher being 14 per slide against 4 perslide in the thick drop method.

Documento 161: 

a sensitive and specific fluorescence assay for tissue serotonin . a sensitive and specific method for the estimation of serotonin in biological materials is described . in this method, serotonin is reactedwith ninhydrin to form a product whose fluorescence is eight times more intense than the native fluorescence of serotonin in strong acid solution . with this method it is possible to measure serotonin in organs in which endogenous serotonin had not been previously detected and to study the subcellular distribution of this amine in the rat pineal and adrenal glands .

Documento 976: 

a polyethylene tube culture method for the diagnosis of parasiticinfections by hookworms and related nematodes.studies were made in amami island and inbangkok to compare the diagnostic efficiencyof direct microscopical examination,test tube culture and the newly devisedpolyethylene tube culture method for the detectionof filariform larvae. the resultsshow that the new technique has a number ofadvantages over the other methods. itis more sensitive than the others for the detectionof cases of slight infection andgreatly reduces the risk of overlooking smallnumbers of larvae. polyethylene tubesare extremely cheap, compact and light, andcan be very easily disposed of afteruse.

Documento 546: 

the unreliability of the titan yellow methodfor the determination of magnesiumin patients receiving intravenouscalcium gluconategluconate was found to interfere with the determination of magnesium by thetitan yellow method. with this method, false low results were found in theserum and urine of patients receiving intravenous calcium gluconate. theinterference can be prevented by ashing of the specimen.

Documento 215: 

attenuation curves of the human eye under normal and pathological conditions . a method is described which allows the determination of /attenuation curves/ of the human eye . those curves are obtained by plotting the critical depth of modulation (cmd) as a function of the critical fusion frequency (cff) . routine experiments were carried out for a 2 test field showing a sinusoidal periodical variation of its luminance, surrounded by an extensive area with a luminance equal to the average luminance of the test field . attenuation curves were obtained for normal observers under different experimental conditions and for a number of patients . it is shown that this method affords us informationwhich cannot be obtained by means of the classical methods for measuringthe cff .

Documento 406: 

2773. the value of fluorescence cytology for the cytodiagnosisof pulmonary cancerthe paper discusses the test resultsof 527 tissue samples sent in for the cytodiag-nostics of lung cancer and comparesthe method of ao-fluorochromation with othermethods of preparation. by means ofapplying ao-fluorochromation, the rate of er-roneously positive findings could bereduced. the rate of erroneously negative find-ings was somewhat higher but the totaldiagnostic precision of 93% was 3% higherthan in all other methods applied.

Documento 548: 

the study of osteoporosisand osteomalaciaradiological evidence strongly suggests thatosteoporosis (with the possible exception of acuteimmobilization osteoporosis) may be an irrever-sible condition. the changes therefore to beexpected in calcium balance when an osteoporoticis treated are small compared with those oftenseen in osteomalacia. methods of obtaining moreaccurate calcium balances are needed to showthese small changes, especially when a highcalcium intake is used. the method of continuousmarking of stools with chromium sesquioxideseems to provide just such a method. using thismethod, it has so far proved impossible to obtainprolonged large positive calcium balances inosteoporosis on either high calcium intake,anabolic hormones, or sodium fluoride.two alternative therapies to vitamin d havebeen explored for use in vitamin d-resistantosteomalacia. atp has been found to be inneffective.intravenous phosphate alone has been ineffectivein producing positive calcium balances, but iseffective as a complement to vitamin d undercertain conditions.

Documento 127: 

application of the emission spectrograph to the analytical needs of the industrial hygiene laboratory . examples of unique applications of the principles of emission spectroscopy to industrial hygiene problems are provided . a discussion of qualitative, semiquantitative and quantitative methods of spectrographic analysis is presented . these methods include representative applications which are made for the analysis of the metallic constituents of body tissues and fluids from human and animal subjects, industrial process materials, ores, and environmental dusts and fumes . brief descriptions of sample preparation techniques requiredfor successful analyses are also presented .

Documento 979: 

concentration techniques of sanguicolous microfilariae.a technique is described for concentrationof sanguicolous microfilariae, a modifiedharris and summers method.

Documento 357: 

2996. visual static agnosia with special reference to literal agnosic alexiathis is a report of 2, right-handed adults who had 'visual agnosia (withpredominance of literal alexia)'. recognition of letters was poor ornonexistent when the patient simply viewed the material (static method) butif the letter was slowly developed for them, they were able to identify it(dynamic method). one patient had vascular pathology which was consideredto involve both occipital lobes and the 2nd patient had the surgical removal ofthe left occipital lobe for an angioma.

Documento 88: 

radiocardiography.. principles and methods . the aa show the importance of radiocardiography, as a method to evaluate the cardiac output, the ventricular volumes and the pulmonary blood volume . in this first paper, they are particulary concerned with some technical aspects, which are very important to collect data . the position of the collimator on the precordium, the injection of isotopes through a catheter, just behind the ventricle near the tricuspid valve, the selection of ratemeter constants the velocity of paper on the recorder and the way to read the area of the curve, were specially discussed . finally, they present the formula used to calculate cardiac output, ventricular volumes and pulmonary blood volumes .

Documento 981: 

a review of immunologic methods for the diagnosis of filariasis.the author reviews the historical applicationof the skin test, cft, precipitin test,haemagglutination and bentonite flocculation,and prausnitz-kuestner test to thediagnosis of various filarial infections inman and animals, with a discussion ofareas requiring further study. he is of theopinion that with standardization of techniques,immunologic methods can be madeto furnish a reliable means of diagnosis,notwithstanding the past unreliability of suchmethods. a bibliography arranged inchronological order lists 125 papers coveringthe period from 1916 to 1962, and asupplementary list of references includes22 recent papers on general aspects ofthe subject.

Documento 261: 

radioisotope photoscanning as a diagnostic aid in cardiovascular diseasea safe, simple method for diagnosing pericardial effusion and aneurysm .radioisotope scanning is a safe, simple, and useful method for the diagnosis of pericardial effusion and aortic aneurysm . the whole-body radiation dose, approximately 25 millirads from 300 of i 131-sodium iodipamide, is no greater than the dose received from a standard posteroanterior chest roentgenogram or a blood volume determination . there are no side effects or complications from the procedure, and it iswell tolerated by the patient . the scan can be repeated at intervals toassess progress of the disease or response to treatment . cardiovascularscanning with radioactive isotopes can be recommended as a useful and safe diagnostic tool .

Documento 128: 

nickel carbonyl.. its detection and potential for formation . recent recommendations for control of nickel carbonyl exposures have been considered in the design of a simple, sensitive field method for sampling nickel carbonyl in air and process gases . the method involves collection in dilute aqueous hcl, ph adjustment, nickel complex development with alpha-furildioxime, and extraction with chloroform . color intensity is compared visually (or for greater accuracy, spectrophotometrically) with liquid standards . sensitivities on the order of 0.001 ppm are obtainable . a detailed development of the thermodynamics associated with the formation of nickel carbonyl is also presented to show the maximum concentrations of nickel carbonyl that maybe formed over a wide range of co concentrations, temperatures and pressures .

Documento 778: 

pelvic perfusion and carcinomaof the rectuma method of regional chemotherapy throughisolation of the pelvis has been presented.all of the subjects were near the terminalstage at the time of perfusion. the survivaltime and degree of palliation have been en-couraging.

Documento 718: 

congenital malformations.clinical and community considerationstwo of the most significant medicalevents of the century, the epidemic ofpost-rubella anomalies in australiaduring 1940 and 1941 and the pan-demic of thalidomide embryopathiesin europe and elsewhere during 1960and 1961, have demonstrated clearlythe importance of monitoring programsto record the occurrence of congenitalmalformations at group (for example,hospital) and community (especiallycity) levels. the principle of report-ing malformations and utilizing thedata for service programs or, betterstill, for prevention, is not new, butthe methodical use of vital statisticsin a scientifically constructed surveil-lance system is new. so also is thejoint endeavor on the part of clinicians,public health workers and basic scien-tists to reconstruct an epidemiology ofdeformity on the basis of time, place,person distributions of malformations.a primary need has been for stand-ardized methods of classifying andreporting congenital malformations.

Documento 767: 

absence of the cystic ducta case of congenital absence of the cysticduct is described, the 18th reported case inthe literature. the embryogenetic basis ofanomalies of the extrahepatic biliary treeis discussed. methods of early operativerecognition and surgical management ofthe anomaly are suggested.

Documento 990: 

palliative treatment of osseous metastases from carcinoma of the breastand carcinoma of the prostate with radio-active phosphorus andtestosterone.fifty-three patients suffering from pain arisingin bony metastases from carcinomaof the breast and prostate are discussed.a method of palliative treatment is outlinedand the results reported.

Documento 418: 

4612. flow considerations in regional cerebral hypothermiait is suggested that low flows are dangerousand may cause anoxia either directlyor by interfering with cooling. sixty dogshave been subjected to local cerebralhypothermia by the method of femoral tocarotid cooling of arterial blood with per-fusion at a predetermined pressure ratherthan predetermined flow rate. the cir-cuit is described and its advantages forclinical use mentioned together with its in-accuracies as a method of scientific investigation.these are chiefly concernedwith maintenance of systemic blood pressurewhich may require the injection ofpressor agents. evidence for reduction in flowat low temperatures is discussedand evidence presented that this is not only dueto increase in viscosity but thatthere is an active spasm, manifested by'rewarming humps' which occur in thecooling graphs. mean carotid flow rateswere determined by a revolution counterattached to a pump of fixed stroke volume,the output of which was linked to the per-fusion pressure and thus determined by the resistance.the place of added co2is discussed particularly in relation to the fallin partial pressure which accompa-nies the cooling of the blood. the addition of 5% co2did not increase total carotidflows. halothane had been used as an anestheticbecause of its sympatholytic ac-tion. it has increased flows by 37% andabolished 'rewarming humps'. rheomacro-dex used as a priming fluid instead of bloodproduced increased flow averaging 75%but did not abolish spasm. it is suggested thatcooling faster than 1 c. per minuteis not intrinsically dangerous if spasm is preventedand high flow maintained by the methods described.

Documento 85: 

platelet sequestration in man . i. methods . current methods of labeling platelets with chromium using ethylenediamine tetraacetate (edta) as an anticoagulant were found to cause rapid hepatic sequestration of nearly all the transfused plateletsabout 50 returned to the circulation but then were partially destroyedin the spleen . less than one-third survived . evidence is presented which indicates that edta is injurious to platelets . when an acid-citrate medium that buffered plasma at ph 6.5 was used asan anticoagulant, 36 to 85 of the labeled platelets survived (average, 62 ), and marked temporary sequestration did not occur . studies in thrombocytopenic persons showed that circulating platelet cr activity measures the true survival of such transfused platelets . the survival and sequestration of platelets were studied in normal subjects . the survival data support the concept that platelets die chiefly by a process of senescence . external scintillation scanning of the various organs suggests that normally the majority of platelets is destroyed in the liver .

Documento 310: 

2579. measurement of aortic regurgitation by upstream sampling with continuousinfusion of indicatora direct and theoretically valid methodfor the measurement of aortic regurgitationinvolves the recording of indicator concentrationsfrom the left ventricle and a down-stream site during aortic root injection. however,this method has yielded erraticresults when applied to man in the authors'laboratory when using the sudden in-jection technique. therefore, the upstreamsampling method, using continuous in-fusion of indicator, was evaluated in 18 patientswith aortic regurgitation duringretrograde aortic and transseptal left ventricularcatheterization. the continuousinfusion technique was compared with the techniqueof sudden injection in 10 patientsand with aortic valvulography in 14 patients.measurements of forward flow obtainedwith continuous infusions into the aortic rootwere not significantly different frommeasurements obtained with sudden injectionsinto the pulmonary artery. recordingsof indicator concentrations from the left ventricle,during continuous infusions intothe aortic root, demonstrated readily evidentequilibrium plateaus. the resultantmeasurements of regurgitant flow were highlyreproducible and not impaired bynonsimultaneity of upstream and downstreamsampling. the percentage error ofestimate at 95% confidence limits was 22% ofthe measurement for regurgitant flow,13% for total flow, and 9% for the regurgitantfraction of total flow. the correspond-ing errors of estimate for the sudden injectiontechnique were 4 times larger. re-gurgitant flow by the continuous infusion methodranged from 0.8-30.0 l/min, totalflow from 3.0-36.0 l/min, and the regurgitantfraction of total flow from 12-86%.ranking of patients by the magnitudes of regurgitantand total flow did not correspondto ranking by angiographic criteria of severity.however, an excellent correlationprevailed between angiographic grade and the regurgitantfraction of total flow,demonstrating that this variable is the most meaningfulexpression of severity. thecorrelation (0.997) between the angiographic grade andthe regurgitant fractionmeasured by the continuous infusion technique wasclearly superior to that obtainedwith the sudden injection technique (0.894). mildregurgitation was equivalent toa regurgitant fraction of <25%, moderateregurgitation to a fraction of 25-50%,moderately severe regurgitation to a fractionof 50-75% and severe regurgitation toa fraction of >75%. it is concluded that theupstream sampling method during con-tinuous infusion of indicator, because of itssensitivity, reliability, applicability tomultiple measurements, and validity in thepresence of mitral regurgitation is themost useful method for quantifying aorticregurgitation in man.

Documento 354: 

1774. the speed of reading. basis for a clinical function testas an easily comprehensible measure for the capability of reading, the authorrecommends the determination of the reading speed for supplementation of theocular function tests. the method in question constitutes a senso-motorefficiency test which is of value in the appraisal of haemianopias, paracentraland central defects of the visual field, in squint amblyopias and inspontaneous nystagmus.

Documento 129: 

polarographic determination of heavy metals in air samples . the polarograph possesses the required sensitivity and specificity to make it the method of choice for analysis for a variety of heavy metals in air . two commercial polarographs are compared and both found adequate on the basis of analysis for lead . determinations may be made for antimony, copper, lead, cadmium, chromium, nickel, cobalt, manganese, and others .

Documento 978: 

preliminary report on the leucoconcentration technique applied to thestudy of microfilaraemia.in a case of filariasis due to wuchereriabancrofti the routine leucoconcentrationtechnique used in the demonstration of steinberg'sneoplasic cells in circulatingblood was applied. this method makes itpossible to obtain considerable enrichment.demonstration of filaria can be performedduring daylight. from the materialobtained, preparation of specific antigens,that make possible an immunologicaldiagnosis, may be carried out.

Documento 145: 

physical and biological studies on transforming dna . bacillus subtilis transforming dna prepared by the method described, has an average molecular weight of 11.6 million . the dna is heterogeneous, as judged by chemical composition, thermo-spectral and pyenographic properties . these properties have been used to fractionatesome of the biologically active molecules which show higher specific activities in transforming respective auxotrophs .

Documento 422: 

2406. profound hypothermiathe aim of hypothermia is protection of vitalcerebral structures from hypoxiaduring aneurysm repair; profound hypothermiais also valuable in operating oncertain cardiac defects which cannot be repairedeven with whole body perfusion.since the time needed for aneurysm repair oftenexceeded the safe limit of 8 to 12minutes without circulation afforded by surfacehypothermia of 29 to 30 c., theauthors have investigated the drew (open-chest)technic, the closed-chest method,and isolated cerebral perfusion. the drew technicconsists of substituting twopumps for the heart while the patient's lungs actas the oxygenator. because of itsdisadvantages (the large amounts of blood neededand the morbidity due to intra-cardiac cannulation and median sternotomy), aclosed-chest method was developed,using a mayo-gibbons vertical-sheet pump-oxygenatorto provide the perfusion andextracorporeal cooling without requiring thoracotomy.in cerebral perfusion, bloodis taken from one artery, pumped through a heatexchanger, and returned to anotherartery. the authors describe anesthetic technics,offer comparisons of the threemethods, give instructions pertaining to the productionof hypothermia, and list theproblems encountered in the management of these cases.

Documento 13: 

analysis of mammalian lens proteins by electrophoresis . lens proteins of different mammalian species were analyzed by two-dimensional starch gel electrophoresis . the number of fractions detected by this means varied from 11-20 . a-crystallin was resolved into two to three components, b-crystallin into 5-11, and y-crystallin into three to five components . this technique provides a sensitive method for the fractionation of lens proteins and for analyzing species differences .

Documento 307: 

75. behavior of polyunsaturated fatty acids in physiologicalpregnancyby the enzymatic lipoxidase method ofmacgee et al., the author measured polyun-satured fatty acids (p.f.a.) in healthypregnant women at full term of pregnancy.before labour there are in the blood 75-95mg.% of p.f.a., i.e. 10-15% morethan in non-pregnant women; during labourp.f.a. increase very much, 100-137mg.%, about 50% more than before labour.

Documento 796: 

the management of disseminatedcancer of the breastwhen mammary cancer has spread to tissues beyondthe breast and axilla, the disease is incurable by presentday methods. however the patient may be greatly helpedand tumor growth retarded by skillful and sympatheticapplication of irradiation, surgical ablation, hormone ad-ministration, and chemotherapy. given in conjunctionwith analgesics, sedatives, and ataractic drugs, thesemeasures can frequently reduce disability and pain andprolong the period of useful comfortable life.

Documento 1003: 

palliative treatment of nonresectable lung cancer by upper hemibodyperfusion of chlorimine (short-acting alkylating agent). experiencewith five cases.a method is discussed for providing palliative treatmentfor patients with nonresectable lung cancer bymeans of administering a short-acting alkylating agentto the upper half of the body while temporarily occludingthe circulation to the lower half of the body. with properselection of patients and an awareness of the potentialcomplications, the procedure appears to be safe and effective.

Documento 381: 

3765. radioactive isotope determination of myocardial bloodflow by surface counting and ratio formulawilkinson d.the results presented here have a largescale error and a large scatter, so thatthe authors recommend that further clinicaluse of this method should not be at-tempted. if the coronary portion of the flowrate curve exists, then a change in thepresent instrumentation is needed to allowuse of the technique of sevelius andjohnson in defining a coronary portion of theflow rate. an attempt is made toevaluate the possible source of errors.

Documento 248: 

lung scanning with colloidal risa . the use of colloidal risa injected intravenously in a particle size of10.50 microns followed by lung photoscanning offers a practical, atraumatic method of visualizing pulmonary artery occlusions in the dog the fact that the particles have a relatively short biological half-life appears to decrease the radiation dose delivered and the duration of occlusion of pulmonary capillaries as compared to ceramic microspheres . work is in progress to apply this technique to the study of pulmonary artery occlusion in the human .

			********** Consulta 27:  interested in the parasitic diseases **********

Documento 109: 

a few interesting neurologic manifestations of migraine . migraine is a complex vascular phenomenon presumably of genetic originwhich, through changes induced by either vasoconstriction or vasodilitation, can produce interference with the neurologic system and result in many bizarre and alarming clinical pictures . a few examples of the more interesting neurologic manifestations have been shown .

Documento 374: 

1878. pharmacologic actions on cellular immunitythe following chapters of interest in the field of drugs and immunity processesare included manifestations of cellular immunity. states of reducedimmunologic reactivity. present status of pharmacologic immunosuppression.tests for susceptibility of tuberculin reactions to pharmacologic action.tests for susceptibility of transplantation immunity to pharmacologic action.comparative susceptibilities of tuberculin and skin homotransplantationreactions to pharmacologic action.

Documento 399: 

3748. four separate tumour clones derived from a transplantable pleo-morphic carcinoma of the lung in a heterozygous mousea metastasising pleomorphic adenocarcinomain the lung of an untreated hetero-zygous male mouse was successfullytransplanted to 4 brothers by the 'plating'technique of henderson and rous. by'plating' multiple small grafts in air bells inthe subcutaneous tissues of the new hostsit was possible to select 4 different clonesof transplantable tumour for further study.the histological peculiarities ofdifferent parts of the original tumourwere reproduced in the different clones a i,ii, iii, and b. retrospective studyof the primary tumour and of its metastasesprovided some interesting clues to routesof metastasis and the selective survival ofmalignant cells. it is concluded that bythe cloning of transplantable cells, at thefirst serial passage, valuable informationabout the histogenesis and potentialmalignancy of the primary tumour can beobtained. lastly, the highly malignantcharacter of 4 clones of tumour cells apparentlyderived from the familiar clinicallybenign adenoma of the mouse lung maybe of some interest, from the point ofview of prognosis based on histology.

Documento 742: 

congenital atresia ofthe extrahepatic bile ductsbecause congenital atresia of the extra-hepatic biliary tract is almost always fatal,exception to this course becomes of interest.the remarkable history of one such infantwas reported in 1960 when he had attainedthe age of 2 1/2 years and, after three opera-tions, he was in good health developing nor-mally and free of jaundice. since he is now8 1/2 years of age, has had two more opera-tions, is still free of jaundice, and is againin good health, his further course since 1960should be of interest.

Documento 752: 

neonatologyconsiderable progress has been made in theknowledge of bilirubin metabolism since the char-acterization of "direct" (conjugated) bilirubin as anester glucuronide. the metabolic pathway involvedin this hepatic conjugation is now well establishedand has been the subject of excellent reviews bysherlock and billing.sherlock's diagrammatic representations of biliru-bin metabolism (fig. 1) and of the possible mecha-nisms of jaundice (fig. 2) are reproduced herebecause they furnish a clear picture to serve as areference point for the discussion to follow.it is interesting to re-examine current concepts ofthe etiology of physiologic jaundice with this dia-gram in mind. jaundice may occur for a number ofreasons, described below.

Documento 195: 

the isolation and morphology of some new bacteriophages specific for bacillus and acetobacter species . the best natural habitat for bacteriophages is probably a semi-solid medium containing actively dividing host bacteria . such conditions are provided for bacillus and acetobacter species in rotting grass and apples, respectively . the bacillus phages found included one with a large head and a contractile tail, and also a so-called killer particle,which had a 350 a head and a long contractile tail . this particle had the property of killing but not multiplying within a sensitive cell . a new morphological type of virulent bacillus phage was also isolated,. its head was oblong and the tail consisted of a short needle and a platethe one acetobacter phage found resembled coliphage t3 but was of particular interest because of the prominence of the head capsomeres andthe three-pronged tail .

Documento 722: 

bilateral papilloma of the choroid plexusa rare case of bilateral papilloma of the choroid plexusin a five-and-a-half-year old hydrocephalic girl is pre-sented.the tumor encountered at autopsy was not suspectedduring life, the existing hydrocephalus being attributedto either cytomegalic inclusion disease or toxoplasmosis.after post mortem examination, it was evident thatthe hydrocephalus was due to two factors; hypersecretionfrom the tumor itself, and obstruction at the level of thesylvian aqueduct by a delicate, tense, translucent mem-brane.an interesting and uncommon additional feature ofthis case was the presence, within the choroidal papillo-ma, of well-formed haversian bone.a plea is made for regularly considering papilloma ofthe choroid plexus in the differential diagnosis of hydro-cephalus in children, for here, early diagnosis and treat-ment might conceivably result in total cure.

Documento 624: 

interpretation within the metaphoranalytic investigation of the use of the metaphor was first given impetusby ella freeman sharpe (1950), who explored the symbolicmeaning of particular metaphoric phrases with reference to the bodyand libidinal needs. currently, interest has become focused upon theuse of the metaphor as a self-conscious, rational therapeutic techniqueof communication, of particular value with those patients who havereached "the borderline of sanity". ekstein (1961) and ekstein andwallerstein (1957) have emphasized that the use of the metaphorshould be regarded as an essential technique for gradually establishingcommunication and initial insight with borderline and schizophrenicpatients but that it must not be regarded as a treatment techniquein itself. it is but a preliminary approximation to the final therapeuticact, which ultimately will consist of a classical interpretationat the level of the secondary process. the use of the metaphor derivesits primary value from maintaining contact with patients who areconstantly in danger of being inundated by a break-through of primary-process material.

Documento 251: 

drugs and neonatal jaundice . this paper is not intended as an exhaustive review of bilirubin metabolism nor of the many factors which may result in exaggerated physiologic jaundice.. for such a review the interested reader is referred to the excellent articles by zuelzer and brown . brief mention has been made of the mechanism by which certain drugs may contribute to the development of hyperbilirubinemia . a few drugs, the water-soluble vitamin k derivatives, sulfasoxazole (gantrisin), the salicylates, and novobiocin have been unequivocally shown to affect adversely the newborninfant's ability to handle bilirubin . in time other compounds will definitely be incriminated . it is important to remember that the administration of a drug to a mother just prior to delivery may result in appreciable concentrations of the compound in the infant's serum, and that drugs administered to the nursing mother may be excreted in breast milk and thereby absorbed by the infant . careful consideration of the drugs given not only to thenewborn but also to the mother is therefore essential if we are to avoidwhat may be termed iatrogenic hyperbilirubinemia .

Documento 777: 

clinical experience with palliationof metastatic adenocarcinoma with5-fluorouracil chemotherapychemotherapy of solid tumors is becoming amore and more helpful therapeutic tool. itis probable that within a few years chemother-apy will become firmly established as an ad-junct to the primary treatment of solid tumors.perhaps someday a cancerocidal chemical willbe devised that can actually act as antibioticsdo on bacteria. for this reason it is importantfor all surgeons interested in the treatment ofcancer to try to keep abreast of the recent ad-vances in the field of chemotherapy. surgeonsshould also begin to use some of the technics forpalliation of incurable patients so that whenthese drugs are added to the armamentarium ofprimary treatment of cancer, they will befamiliar with the various technics and the modeof actions of the drugs.5-fluorouracil (5-fu) has had extensive clin-ical use and has produced significant palliationin breast and colon cancers with about a thirdof these patients receiving palliation for five tosix months.

Documento 465: 

7364. experimental amyloidosis in immunitymuch of interest in the mechanism ofexperimental amyloidosis as a result of theparenteral introduction of foreign proteinhas been centered around the nature ofthe links leading to cytological and biochemicalchanges in tissues and body fluids.some of the authors suggested that such linksmay be of immunological nature.there is however, no clear-cut proof eitherin favor of or against the theory of animmunological origin of amyloid. sinceinjection of proteins during the perinatalperiod prevents an immune response whenthe animal is subsequently challengedwith the same antigen, the authors studiedamyloidosis caused by casein in micetreated after birth with this protein. miceexposed soon after birth to casein ac-quire an immune tolerance to this antigen.this was demonstrated by the absenceof circulating antibodies as measured by thedisappearance of i-labeled caseinfrom the circulation and by means of passivehemagglutination tests with asciticfluids. both tolerant and control animalsdeveloped amyloidosis to the same extent.the results imply that the pathogenesis ofamyloidosis does not rest upon a classicimmunological basis; they do not excludethe possibility, that the disease may bedue to some auto-immune process.

Documento 549: 

the aetiology and treatment ofurinary calculusinvestigations in this laboratory have beenbased on the hypothesis that calculus formation isprimarily a process of crystallization from super-saturated solutions rather than one of adsorptionon a specific protein matrix, as has been postulatedby boyce and his colleagues (boyce and king,1963). that crystallization is the primary factoris strongly suggested by the recent studies ofvermeulen, lyon and gill (1964). these authorsproduced artificial concretions which closelyresembled urinary calculi by immersing a rotatingwire loop in normal urine for several days andslowly adding the appropriate stone-formingelements.if the above hypothesis is correct then thefactors of primary interest in urinary stoneformation are those responsible for supersaturation,nucleation and crystal poisoning. much remainsto be learnt about these various factors, theirinter-relationships, and their relative importance.the significance of the urinary colloids (proteins,muco-proteins and polysaccharides) in calculusformation is still not clear but it is probable thatthey play an important secondary role in bindingcrystalline precipitates to form a non-friablecalculus. since time is an important factor incrystal growth such non-specific binding byproteins would increase the chances of stonegrowth and retention within the upper urinarytract.

Documento 209: 

mitotic lymphocytes in primary tissue cultures of normal and neoplastic human lung . normal and tumor tissue explants from 33 resected human lungs were studied in vitro . lymphocyte mitoses were observed in tissue cultures derived from 12 of the lungs . the ability of lymphocytes to undergo mitotic division in human lung tissue culture has not been reported previously . in the autologous systems used lymphocyte mitoses were muchmore common in cellular outgrowths derived from non-neoplastic tissue than they were in the outgrowths derived from cancer-bearing explants . no differences were observed in the total number of nondividing lymphocytes present in the non-neoplastic and neoplastic preparations . the in ritro systems employed are promising tools for further contributions to an already well established clinicopathologic relationship between lymphocytes and cancer cells . phase contrast and time-lapse cinephotomicrographic records were obtained of the mitotic process and special attention was paid to the structural details . certain findings were of particular interest, namely the formation of a dense chromatin ring during telophase, the variable occurrence of cytoplasmic bubbling, and the death of lymphocytes during early metaphase (/exploding/ metaphase) . an elaboration and discussion of these findings have been presented .

Documento 992: 

intra-arterial infusion emphasizing treatment of malignant neoplasms.this review of the english medical literaturesummarizes most of the significantpapers concerned with intra-arterial infusion.this technique of cancer therapy iseffective for palliation of many advanced primaryand recurrent cancer patients.head and neck cancer patients form the largestgroup of patients that have been treatedbecause of the easily accessible arteries.however, almost any involved organcan be infused by external approaches to thefemoral, brachial and common carotids.most oncolytic chemotherapeutic agents canbe given via the intra-arterial route atnotably increased dosages with the exceptionof 5fudr. partial and complete regressionof many tumors can be obtained withpresent day chemotherapeutic agentsfor 1 or 2 mth. the best therapeutic resultshave been in patients with head and neckand pelvic tumors. currently infusion techniquesusing small mobile pumping unitspermit the patient to be ambulatory during courseof anti-tumor therapy. complicationsfrom intra-arterial infusion are usuallyminor but serious complications dooccur such as embolic phenomena to the cnswith internal carotid infusion; aplasticbone marrow from drug toxicity, hemorrhagefrom tumor degeneration. technicalcomplications of the infusion may not be lifethreatening but frequently prematurelyterminate the therapy. continued interest inthis form of therapy appears inevitable.

Documento 589: 

the effect of human growth hormone inhypopituitary dwarfismhuman growth hormone (hgh) raben has beenused in a dosage of 2 mg./m.2/day or 5 mg./m.2 twiceweekly. this dosage is probably in or below, butcertainly not above, the range of physiologicalreplacement therapy.in a standardized five-day metabolic hgh testhypopituitary dwarfs retain more n than childrenwithout gh deficiency. this test is valuablediagnostic help in hypopituitary dwarfism.a prolonged treatment with hgh acceleratesgrowth in hypopituitary dwarfs but not in childrenwithout gh deficiency. growth rate, induced bythis treatment, is first above average and later averageor below average for age. this decreasing responseto hgh is typical for the general phenomenon ofcatch-up growth and is not caused by the develop-ment of antibodies.of 9 hypopituitary dwarfs, treated for at least 9months, 3 were growth resistant from the beginningin spite of a high n retention in the preceding hghtest. this resistance is caused by the developmentof high titres of specific hgh antibodies in the veryfirst few months of treatment. these antibodiessuppress the effect of hgh both on metabolism andon growth. the unexpected occasional induction inman of antibodies against a homologous proteinhormone is of great interest. the possibility thatthese antibodies might be active not only against thehomogenous but also against the endogenous hormonecould have a far-reaching biological importance.

Documento 421: 

974. extracorporeal hypothermia without thoracotomy. an ex-perimental study in the use of cold for neurosurgery andcancericidal perfusionsthis paper includes minor clinical noteson open heart surgery and cancer perfusionbut contains no experimental informationon neurosurgery or cancer perfusions. amethod of closed-chest hypothermic perfusionin 30 dogs is reported. the authorsutilize drainage of superior and inferior cavaeby gravity. the volume of venousdrainage sometimes enhanced by transfusionsor 12.5% low molecular weight dex-tran determined the flow rate. cooling wasmaintained for quite variable periodsapparently generally to an unspecifiedesophageal temperature. perfusion time va-ried from 30 min. to 4 hr. animals withlow flows were perfused longer, had a high-er incidence of ventricular fibrillation,and a very low survival rate. eleven ani-mals survived. all had pre-cooling flowrates above 40 ml./kg./min., good flowrates during the perfusion, and only 3 hadventricular fibrillation. flow rates andsurvival were increased in animals receivinglow molecular weight dextran. four-teen of 15 animals with ventricular fibrillationwere defibrillated electrically, 8 re-gained 'adequate' cardiac function, but only 3survived. some interesting data onregional cooling of the lower half of the bodyis presented. the authors concludewithout sufficient evidence that the mostimportant factor in the mortality in hypo-thermic perfusion is the ability to maintain'a flow rate approaching the estimatednormothermic cardiac output of the animal'

Documento 388: 

2716. y-angiocardiographyrecordings were made, simultaneously withthe y-cardiogram, of a pulmonary an-giogram by means of a collimator placed inthe left scapular region and of carotidangiogram by a collimator centered on the axisof the external auditory canal. the3 curves yielded very interesting information onthe chronology of the various car-diac cycles. the pattern of the pulmonary andcarotid y-angiograms was valuablein several pathologic conditions. it is more logicalto measure the cardiac outputon the carotid curve than on the y-cardiogram,especially if there are shunts. thepulmonary curve allows rectification of the timeconstant of emptying of the leftcavities of the heart. as regards chronologicinformation on cardiac cycles, atten-tion is drawn to the fact that in the pulmonarycirculation long and short circuitscan be demonstrated. the characteristic timescan be measured. between the timethat the radioactive material appears in the leftcavities and the time that it leavesthe carotid, there is an interval of 3-4 systoles,which represents the time neces-sary for left circular filling. the validity ofcalculation of the cardiac output withthe stewart-hamilton formula is discussed.this is valid if the collimator coversa small volume of the principal channel. it remainsto be shown if such a calculationis valid for larger cavities, or for 2 cavities, throughwhich the radioactive materialpasses successively, and which have different c (t)functions as well as for all tissue'seen' by the collimator, some of which are not yetirrigated with the radioactiveblood, while in other areas recirculation has alreadystarted. these aspects, andtheir application to the pulmonary angiogram, arediscussed in detail. with theauthors' technique, y-angiogram isespecially valuable, as correc-tion for the time constant of the decrease of the leftpeak is based on the lengtheningof this curve. this again serves as a basis fordetermining the left ventricularvolume.

Documento 259: 

the behavior of lymphocytes in primary explants of human lung cancer in vitro . the activity of lymphocytes within outgrowths from explanted tissue fragments of 20 human lung cancers has been studied . the study includedcancer-bearing tissue explants from all cases and noncancerbearing lung tissue from 4 of the 20 cases . five major categories of lymphocytic behavior were derived from the study, namely.. (1) emigration and migration of lymphocytes from the explant,. (2) clustering of lymphocytes around /target/ cells,. (3) ameboid transformation of lymphocytes,. (4) lymphocytic congregation,. and (5) emperipolesis . criteria for these different lymphocytic activities have been amplified or introduced . findings of particular interest were.. (1) the frequency of both via ble and nonviable lymphocytes within the vacuoles of other cells . this observation is considered to be an absolute criterion for the recogni- tion of emperipolesis . a subsequent /inclusionbody/ appearance of the dead lymphocytes has been observed . (2) the intimate relationship of ameboid forms of lymphocytes to selected cells, resulting in a juxtanuclear and frequently unipolar crowding of one cell by numerous lymphocytes while nearby cells were totally devoid of ameboid lymphocytes . reasons are given to support the impression that this phenomenon is re lated to sensitization . there is also the possibility that the phenomenon may indicate that the lymphocyte is /conditioned/ . (3) the apparent entry of the lymphocyte into the cell has been recordedby timelapse cinematography . a lymphocyte relationship to cancer cells was infrequently found although explants of 15 of the 20 cases produced identifiable cancer cells and lymphocytes emigrated from the explants of all 20 cases . it is not apparent from this limited study whether this is a significant finding .

			********** Consulta 28:  palliation temporary improvement of cancer **********

Documento 778: 

pelvic perfusion and carcinomaof the rectuma method of regional chemotherapy throughisolation of the pelvis has been presented.all of the subjects were near the terminalstage at the time of perfusion. the survivaltime and degree of palliation have been en-couraging.

Documento 772: 

the montgomery tube to palliatehypopharyngeal cancerthree cases of advanced, incurable cancer of the hypopharynxhave been presented. in each instance, the simple procedure of insert-ing an available prothesis served as an effective palliation for anotherwise difficult or hopeless situation.

Documento 995: 

cancer chemotherapy by continuous intra-arterial infusion. experienceof the veterans administration surgical adjuvant cancer chemotherapyinfusion study group.two hundred fifty-one patients with advancedcancer have been treated with 365courses of intra-arterial cancer chemotherapy.this technique and its complicationsand results are analyzed and discussed.objective response was obtained in57% of the patients treated. the best resultswere obtained in epidermoid carcinomaof the head and neck and the poorestin primary brain tumors and intra-abdominaladenocarcinomas. ten per centof all patients receiving at least 1 courseof therapy and available for evaluation obtainedworthwhile palliation for 6 or moremonths. ten patients have had satisfactoryresults for periods of 12 to 28 months.it is concluded that arterial infusionchemotherapy may be of benefit inthe palliation of patients in whom other moreconventional methods have failed orare contraindicated. the frequency of seriouscomplications suggests that at presentthis form of therapy should be used onlyby individuals and groups with specialinterest and experience in chemotherapy.much further study of this type of cancertreatment is needed and various areas ofinvestigation are suggested.

Documento 774: 

surgical palliation for lung cancerthe results of resecting incurable lung cancerin an effort to improve the terminal course of asmall number of patients are briefly presented.this is not a comparative study and no in-ferences or conclusions are justified regardingthe choice of this form of therapy as palliationin preference to other forms of palliative ther-apy; however we do believe that the terminalcourse of the patient with lung cancer is bene-ficially effected by removal of the primarytumor whenever this is technically feasible.

Documento 791: 

sustained palliation inovarian carcinomamanagement of 64 cases of advancedovarian carcinoma has been analyzed.an attempt is made to compare thevalue of radiation and the value of chloram-bucil, using salvage time and sustained pal-liation as end points.chlorambucil, an outpatient oral medi-cation, appears to be as efficacious as ra-diation in advanced ovarian carcinoma.chlorambucil may be used before orafter irradiation therapy.pleural and peritoneal effusion respondfavorably to chlorambucil 80% of the time.the possibility of using a differentdosage schedule is discussed.

Documento 702: 

hydrocephalus due to unrecognized cerebellarastrocytoma treated by ventriculoatrialshunt for four yearsa case of a 9-year-old girl is presented in whom prolonged palliation of signsof increased intracranial pressure, presumed to be due to aqueductalobstruction, was achieved by means of a ventriculoatrial shunt. four yearsafter placement of the shunt, signs of a cerebellar mass became apparent.the neoplasm, a cystic astrocytoma, was subsequently totally resected andthe shunt was removed. air studies demonstrating diminution of ventricularsize within this four year period are compared.

Documento 779: 

carcinoma of the esophagusa survey of fifty-seven patients with cancerof the esophagus occurring over a twenty yearperiod is presented. the presenting complaintsof the disease, methods of diagnosis, and char-acteristics of the disease are discussed. threeequal treatment groups consisting of no treat-ment, x-ray treatment, and surgical resectionwere compared and the results were extremelypoor. only one patient in all three groups sur-vived longer than two years. it was our con-clusion, supported by the opinion of others,that x-ray therapy gave the best palliation inmost cases and that surgical resection for cureshould be used in only the most suitable pa-tients.

Documento 783: 

combined 5-fluorouracil and supervoltageradiation therapy in the palliative manage-ment of advanced gastrointestinal cancer:a pilot studymalcolm y. colby, margaret a. holbrook5-fluorouracil in combination with supervoltage radiationtherapy was employed in the palliative treatment of 44 pa-tients with advanced gastrointestinal carcinoma.a total dose of from 40 to 50 mg. per kilogram of bodyweight of 5-fluorouracil given by rapid intravenous injectionat the onset of radiation therapy was found to be relativelysafe and tolerable. larger doses were associated with excessivetoxicity and mortality.a sufficient number of patients achieved objective andsubjective palliation to justify controlled study of the possibleadditive or synergistic role that 5-fluorouracil may have whencombined with radiation therapy.

Documento 775: 

management of advanced endometrialadenocarcinoma with medroxyprogesteroneacetatea basis for progestin therapy for patientswith advanced endometrial adenocarcinomais presented. the criteria for selection ofpatients for hormone therapy and the sched-ule of administration of medroxyprogester-one (provera) is discussed. evaluation ofpatients for objective changes only, i.e., byvisual, palpable, histologic, or roentgeno-logic means, revealed complete or partialremission with significant palliation in 8 of20 patients (40 per cent). response to me-droxyprogesterone therapy is apparently re-lated to degree of differentiation of the pri-mary neoplasm, the well-differentiated le-sions being more responsive. documentationof tumor effect by serial biopsies duringtreatment provides an index to the histologicchanges this progestin produces in suscep-tible cases. the effects of therapy uponserial urinary hormone excretion rates isdocumented in several patients.on the basis of our experience, the treat-ment of patients with advanced endometrialadenocarcinoma with the potent progestinmedroxyprogesterone seems justified.

Documento 777: 

clinical experience with palliationof metastatic adenocarcinoma with5-fluorouracil chemotherapychemotherapy of solid tumors is becoming amore and more helpful therapeutic tool. itis probable that within a few years chemother-apy will become firmly established as an ad-junct to the primary treatment of solid tumors.perhaps someday a cancerocidal chemical willbe devised that can actually act as antibioticsdo on bacteria. for this reason it is importantfor all surgeons interested in the treatment ofcancer to try to keep abreast of the recent ad-vances in the field of chemotherapy. surgeonsshould also begin to use some of the technics forpalliation of incurable patients so that whenthese drugs are added to the armamentarium ofprimary treatment of cancer, they will befamiliar with the various technics and the modeof actions of the drugs.5-fluorouracil (5-fu) has had extensive clin-ical use and has produced significant palliationin breast and colon cancers with about a thirdof these patients receiving palliation for five tosix months.

Documento 992: 

intra-arterial infusion emphasizing treatment of malignant neoplasms.this review of the english medical literaturesummarizes most of the significantpapers concerned with intra-arterial infusion.this technique of cancer therapy iseffective for palliation of many advanced primaryand recurrent cancer patients.head and neck cancer patients form the largestgroup of patients that have been treatedbecause of the easily accessible arteries.however, almost any involved organcan be infused by external approaches to thefemoral, brachial and common carotids.most oncolytic chemotherapeutic agents canbe given via the intra-arterial route atnotably increased dosages with the exceptionof 5fudr. partial and complete regressionof many tumors can be obtained withpresent day chemotherapeutic agentsfor 1 or 2 mth. the best therapeutic resultshave been in patients with head and neckand pelvic tumors. currently infusion techniquesusing small mobile pumping unitspermit the patient to be ambulatory during courseof anti-tumor therapy. complicationsfrom intra-arterial infusion are usuallyminor but serious complications dooccur such as embolic phenomena to the cnswith internal carotid infusion; aplasticbone marrow from drug toxicity, hemorrhagefrom tumor degeneration. technicalcomplications of the infusion may not be lifethreatening but frequently prematurelyterminate the therapy. continued interest inthis form of therapy appears inevitable.

Documento 784: 

palliation by radiotherapythe purpose of radiotherapy in the managementof cancer of the lung is first to cure the disease;second, to prolong useful and comfortable exist-ence; and third, to provide comfort and relief ofsuffering to those who are symptomatic and in-curable.cancers of the lung vary quite widely in theirresponse to radiation. those of glandular origin,the adenocarcinoma, are more often than not ofmodest susceptibility and sometimes quite resis-tant. the very undifferentiated, the so-called oat-cell cancers, are often of exquisite sensitivity, re-sponding to irradiation almost like lymphomas.most cancer of the lung, however, is squamous-cellcarcinoma and as such may be considered to bemoderately radiosensitive in much the same orderof magnitude as squamous-cell carcinoma of theskin, cervix or larynx, and should, in theory, becurable by this means in the same degree. unfor-tunately, this has to date not been found to betrue. the reasons are principally two: first andforemost, by the time a diagnosis is made, cancerof the lung has more often than not, estimated at80% and more, spread beyond the site of origin,thus making cure by any effective means presentlyavailable unlikely. second, the substrate in whichthe cancer grows, the lung, tolerates radiation lesswell than do the tissues which surround the highlyradiocurable epithelial cancers such as carcinoma ofthe skin, cervix, and larynx, thus making an un-favorable therapeutic ratio.

			********** Consulta 29:  hereditary implications of prolonged neonatal **********

Documento 866: 

albright's hereditary osteodystrophy. report of a family with studiesof bone remodeling.two members of a single family, each representingdifferent forms of albright's hereditary osteodystrophy,have been presented. the kindred pattern issimilar to those of other reported families and is consistentwith a sex-linked or autosomal dominant mode ofinheritance. the importance of a course of intramuscularparathyroid extract for proof of parathyroid hormoneresistance is emphasized. biopsy specimens of rib,labeled in vivo with tetracycline, were studied microscopically.these new observations indicated cellulardefects in bone remodeling shared by the propositus andcase 2, which may explain the low rates of bone turnoverfound in each. immunologic studies established thepresence of a substance antigenically similar to parathyroidhormone in the parathyroid tissue of the propositus.the pathogenesis of albright's hereditary osteodystrophyand atypical forms of parathyroid hormoneresistant hypocalcemia is discussed.

Documento 617: 

the formation of a cleft palate unit- a preliminary reportwith cleft palates, as in other surgical fields, changingtechniques and better management of the patient as a wholerender inexcusable the operative procedures that merelydrag together the edges of the defect and then leave acosmetically and functionally crippled child, to adapt itselfas best it may to the harsh competition of the outsideworld.ironically the problem of congenital defects increases asour competence to deal with them advances. in the pastthese cases struggled to take their place on the marriagemarket but the more skilled our rehabilitative proceduresbecome, the more likely are they to perpetuate their disability,since a significant number show a hereditary tendency.

Documento 954: 

salt and water distribution in hereditary and in induced hypothalamicdiabetes insipidus in the rat.salt and water metabolism and the distributionof na, k, and water in gastrocnemiusand in aorta were measured in spontaneoushereditary hypothalamic and in surgicallyinduced diabetes insipidus in the rat.the degree of severity in the 2 types of thedisease was estimated in terms of saltand water handling. water turnover in 24 hr.was about equal to body weight in thehereditary disease and about 60% of body weightin the induced disease. skeletal musclena increased more than 20% in the familialdisease, and the gain involved both cellsand environment. there was no correspondingloss of k. similar changes oflesser degree were noted in the induceddisease. the degree of na accumulationappears to be partially dependent on theduration of the disease.

Documento 750: 

lesions of the liver in hereditarymetabolic diseaseswhether the various cells of the liver, both parenchymal and stromal,receive genetic misinformation in all hereditary diseases caused by genemutation is unknown, but the metabolic capabilities of these several celltypes are so diverse that it is not surprising that their involvement inmany such diseases can be demonstrated by clinical, pathological, or bio-chemical methods. repetitive abnormality of the liver has apparently notbeen defined for any disease caused by quantitative (i.e., chromosomal)gene anomaly, whether produced by nondisjunction, translocation, ormajor deletion, perhaps because relatively few such diseases have beendescribed. as a result, the genetically determined disorders of the liversurveyed in this paper appear to be the result of conventional "singlegene" abnormalities, and to be transmitted in affected families by men-delian mechanisms.

Documento 100: 

the ophthalmologist's role in the management of dyslexia . dyslexia is a clinical entity characterized by subnormal reading ability in a person of average or above average intelligence . it is a disease which has different causes in different children . thecauses include brain damage in the /language area,/ hereditary predisposition and such ophthalmic factors as hyperopia, muscle imbalance, aniseikonia or visual immaturity . emotional disturbances, educational immaturity and cerebral dominance may also play some role inthe etiology of this condition . the universal symptom is poor reading ability . however, these cases frequently have other associated symptoms such as poor writing, difficulty in reading and writing numbers, inability to read or write musical notes and disorientation for left and right . many of these patients develop personality maladjustments . visual fields often reveala hemianopia . in any group of poor readers, a large percentage will have ocular, neurologic, psychiatric or psychologic abnormalities and/or a strong hereditary tendency . the degree to which reading can be learned dependsupon the ability of the individual to adjust to the psycho-physiologic needs that are present at the time he reaches /reading age/ in school . if compensating abilities are present, and if the child's reaction is a favorable one, he may read well in spite of unfavorable factors,. if not, he may become a /poor reader/ . these children should be recognizedin their first year of school . a complete medical work-up should be managed by an ophthalmologist . acomplete ophthalmic examination should first be performed and all possible visual anomalies should be corrected . the ophthalmologist may want a psychometric evaluation, a neurologic opinion to determine the role of organic brain damage, psychiatric consultation for evaluation ofemotional disturbances, pediatric consultation for evaluation of the status of the general health and/or consultation by an otolaryngologist to determine the patient's hearing ability . with all the necessary information at hand, the ophthalmologist will be able to recommend corrective medical therapy and to advise the parents and teachers about available remedial reading aids . the prognosis is good for most patients since they are of average or above average intelligence,. nearly all cases can be helped .

Documento 804: 

twins discordantfor early infantile autisma pair of heterozygous twins discordantfor early infantile autism is reported and therelevant literature reviewed. although mani-fest organic factors were ruled out, the twins'physical development was different. a spe-cific emotional etiology was not demon-strated. the few available twin studies offerfindings consistent with the hypothesis thatgenetic factors are relevant to the develop-ment of childhood autism. evidence is alsopresented that impaired acquisition of lan-guage may have hereditary determinants.a second set of probably homozygoustwins are reported who were also discordantfor autism. this second case suggests that,although genetic factors may play a part, insome cases the syndrome of infantile autismappears to be a reversible one. in view ofthis set of twins and of kanner's sibling data,the role of genetic factors remains obscure,and more twin studies properly documentedwith blood typing are needed.

Documento 200: 

psychology of children's dental treatment . the communication deals with influences involved in the development ofthe child's attitude to dental treatment . they are extrinsic (educational etc.) and intrinsic (constitutional and hereditary) . theirunderstanding helps to determine the correct psychological policy for the management of the child in the surgery . the aim of psychology applied in dentistry is to discover a mode of treatment procedure which would ensure that the child will not be subject to any psychic traumatization (psychophylaxis) . its second aim is the management of the so called difficult child and his treatment . to understand better the child's frame of mind during dental treatmentthe situation in the surgery is dealt with step by step as the child experiences it through his senses and his psyche . beside the basic senses -dash hearing and seeing -dash others are also affected.. touch (pressure sensation), smell and taste . children during dental treatment are nearly always in a state of raised emotional tension and are susceptible to anxiety reactions . according to the degree of fear which they manifest children may be classed into categories of cooperating and difficult patients . the psychological procedure for the treatment of children of both groups is based on the principles summarized in the section 'psychophylaxis in dentistry' . in difficult children it is often necessary to employ yet other psychological measures-psychotherapy, suggestion etc . in extremely exacting cases premedication helps sometimes to find contact with the child . the experimental part of the work demonstrates the following findings 1. dental treatment consists of a series of interdependent traumatizing impulses . many of them appear only after a close analysis of the situation . 2. the adverse response similar to that elicited by pain may be due also to sensory impressions with a negative emotional background . 3. psychic traumatization of the child during dental treatment can be prevented by relatively simple psychological measures .

			********** Consulta 30:  hemophilia and christmas disease especially **********

Documento 1027: 

concurrent hemophilia and christmas' disease in one family.a study is presented of a number of generationsof a family in whom two members hadchristmas' disease and three hemophilia a.it is suspected that the preceding generationsmust have been afflicted with hemophiliaab, or a mutation in x-chromosome geneswhich are responsible for both types of hemophiliamust have occurred in the grandmother'sfamily. in her daughters the genesresponsible for hemophilia ab segregatedso that their children and grandchildren inheritedonly one type of hemophilia i.e. hemophiliaa or christmas' disease. relevant geneticconsiderations are briefly reviewed.

Documento 1020: 

immunological demonstration of factor viii protein in the plasma ofhemophiliacs and its value for an insight into hemophilia a.by immunization of rabbits one obtains antiseraagainst human factor viii, the actionof the immunsera has been determined usinga modification of the thromboplastingenerationstest (the factor viii neutralizationtest). the antibodies against factor viiiare equally absorbed by either normal or hemophiliaa plasma. this observation showsthat hemophilia a plasma contains as much factorviii protein as normal plasma does.in normal and hemophilia a serum one findsat a lower level similar concentrations offactor viii. in analogy with cross-reacting substances(crm) in bacteria mutants anhypothesis has been made according to whichthe authors are dealing with the productof a genetically altered synthesis of factor viii.this product is functionally less activebut possesses the same antigenic determinantsas the normal factor viii. some inhibitorproperties of the hemophilia plasma can beexplained by competitive inhibition madepossible by the similarity of structure. the factthat the inhibitor discovered by mammenand factor viii have similar properties supportthe hypothesis. the theory of someauthors according to which the plasma of anhemophiliac a contains normal amountsof a normal factor viii blocked by a specificinhibitor, the pathogenetic agent of hemophilia ais rejected because of genetic considerationsand because the accelerator appearingafter ether treatment of hemophilia a plasma isnot identical with factor viii.

Documento 830: 

hip disarticulation in apatient with hemophiliadisarticulation of the hip in a hemophiliac patientwas performed because of a severe osteomyelitisinvolving the entire right femur and was lifesaving.the following are suggestions for hemotologic man-agement: (1) infected wounds in hemophiliac pa-tients should be left open initially. (2) electro-cautery should not be used in an infected wound ofa hemophiliac patient. (3) a safe fibrinogen prepa-ration potent in the antihemophilic factor is nowavailable in this country and is a highly significantadvance in the surgical treatment of hemophilia.

Documento 841: 

hemophilic arthropathyjaromir priborsky, zora antalovskathe authors report their experience with jointdiseases in 54 patients suffering from hemo-philia, 49 of them being cases of hemophilia a,5 of hemophilia b. 21 patients were childrenup to the age of 14 years. bleeding into the jointsoccurred in 66.6% of patients. in the agegroup over 14 years the cases of bleeding intothe joints were more frequent (78.8%) thanin the age group up to 14 years (47.7%).there were no differences as to bleeding into thejoints and the seriousness of articular changesbetween the cases of hemophilia a and hemo-philia b. in most cases the bleeding into thejoints began between the 6th and the 14th yearof age. bleeding into the joints as the firstmanifestation of a hemophilic condition occurredonly in 9.3% of patients; in most cases otherhemophilic manifestations preceded. in spite ofthis fact the joint manifestations were oftenwrongly diagnosed as tuberculous arthritis, rheumaticfever, progressive arthritis, and were treatedaccordingly. most usually the large joints (knee,elbow, ankle) were affected with bleeding and inthem the changes were also the most serious. thejoints of both halves of the body wereaffected uniformly. in most cases several joints wereaffected while monoarticular localizationwas observed in 16.6%. the seriousness of articularchanges was dependent mainly on thenumber of repeated bleedings into one and the samejoint, although other factors (weight bearingof the joint, complexity of the joint, treatment) may beof decisive importance in the individualcases as well.according to clinical (especially fromthe functional point of view) and x-ray criteria thearticular findings were classified into threegroups: in the first group the function of the jointis preserved, in the second limited andin the third practically extinguished. the followinglaboratory tests were carried out: erythrocytesedimentation reaction, latex test for the rheu-matoid factor, c-reactive protein, mecoproteintyrosine and weltmann's coagulation test.the findings were normal even in cases ofirreparable articular changes unless acute bleedinginto the joint or in some other localization,or some other complicating disorder was presentsimultaneously.the therapy of hemophilic arthropathyremains troublesome owing especially to a frequentoccurrence of articular bleeding.a close cooperation of the hematologistand the rheumatologist or the orthopedist may con-tribute to the improvement of the fate ofthese patients.

Documento 1033: 

hemorrhagic episodes in hemophilia: a 5-year prospective study.medicosocial studies of hemophilia are ofparticular clinical importance in allowing an assessmentof the likely course of the disease at differentages and for differing grades of severity, and inproviding knowledge of which complications causethe most disability, loss of education, and earningcapacity. they also overcome the distorted clinicalimpression of the disease which arises from therecurrent admission of the same few severely affectedhemophiliacs. owing to the considerable individualvariation in the number and severity of complicationsin different hemophiliacs an accurate individualprognosis can never be given. in general,however, the number of spontaneous episodes peryear decreases with age, while the severity of individualepisodes tends to increase, at least untilthe age of 21 yr. there is general agreement thatthe bulk of hospital hemophilic admissions are dueto hemarthroses and that hemophilic arthropathyinvolves the knee more than it does any other joint.the increased time spent in hospital per episode inlater life is in part at least due to the developmentof relatively unstable weight-bearing joints due tohemophilic arthropathy and associated muscle atrophy.thus the correct management of individualhemarthroses in childhood is of considerable importance,and at the present time too little is knownof the best possible treatment for these episodes.little is known of the pathological mechanisms ofhemophilic arthropathy and whether it is the presenceof blood or its presence under tension whichleads to joint destruction. thus opinions differ concerningthe routine admission of all hemarthrosesto hospital regardless of severity and also about theadvisability of joint aspiration in an attempt to avoidthe development of destructive arthropathy. becauseof the individual variation between patients, thechanges in the pattern of the disease with age, andthe difficulty of obtaining suitable control patientsthese questions can be answered only by furtherlongterm prospective medicosocial studies.

Documento 1024: 

some bone lesions in the course of blood diseases with special referenceto the formation of bony callus and to the treatment of fractures inpatients suffering from blood diseases.after some preliminary remarks on the embryologyand physiology of the bonemarrow and on the mechanism of coagulationof the blood, the authors pass on toa consideration of the genesis of bony callus,and the treatment of fractures inpatients suffering from blood diseases. anaccount is given on the basis of some examplesof pathological fractures, and alsoof some traumatic fractures in subjectsaffected by various kinds of blood diseasessuch as solitary myeloma, polyosteoticplasmocytoma, waldenstroem's syndrome,the coagulopathic syndromefrom a structural defect of the fibrin coagulum,and hemophilia. fractures in patientswith blood diseases are characterizedby an abnormal course, and, for aneffecient cure, it is necessary to make anaccurate diagnosis with regard to thepre-existing blood diseases and to re-establishhemostasis when this has beenchanged, to prevent hemorrhages, and to correctany plasma defect that may bepresent and which are reflected in the formationof the bony callus.

Documento 1029: 

major surgery in classic hemophilia using fraction i. experience intwelve operations and review of the literature.a therapeutic regimen that provides hemostasis inhemophiliacs during and after major surgery without requiringlaboratory control has been established with afactor viii concentrate. the effectiveness of this regimenof fraction i therapy was evaluated in major surgeryof 6 severely deficient and 4 moderately deficient hemophiliacs.an analysis of clinical results was made, combiningthe 12 operations of the series with the 116 majoroperative procedures on hemophiliacs recorded in theenglish literature, in which fraction i was the sole ormajor source of factor viii therapy. dental and nondentalsurgery were analyzed separately, as was thespecial problem of blood cysts. although the over-allmortality rate following major surgery in hemophiliacsis presently only 5 to 10% using factor viii concentrates,problems still remain. these include the continued highincidence of abnormal postoperative hemorrhage, thevariation in factor viii potency of different lots of fractioni, the late development of serum hepatitis, hemolyticanemia due to contaminating isoantibodies and thehigh cost of adequate amounts of the product. more efficientmethods of preparing purer and more potent factorviii concentrates could eliminate most of these difficulties.

Documento 1025: 

studies of the antihemophilic factor (ahf, factor viii) produced in vonwillebrand's disease.it has been confirmed that persons with autosomalahf deficiency (von willebrand'sdisease) produce large quantities ofahf when transfused with ahf-deficientplasma from persons with hemophilia a.this occurs despite the fact that'complementation' does not occur in vitro. oneprediction from a model suggestingthat the x-locus for ahf is structural whilethe autosomal locus is regulatory isthat the ahf which appears in von willebrand'sdisease after transfusion will bestructurally normal. the ahf obtained underthese conditions has been tested bymethods and the results fulfil the prediction.this may imply that the model iscorrect. on the other hand, the prediction mayhave been fulfilled for otherreasons. perhaps the wrong parameters wereexamined, or the large standarderrors of the tests masked a real difference.further tests are obviously neededbefore one can feel reasonably certain thatmutation of a regulatory gene is thebasis of von willebrand's disease. an examinationof persons with sex-linked andautosomal ahf deficiency using an antibodyprepared against wild type ahf mightbe very illuminating. also, transfusion studiesshould be carried out on personshomozygous for von willebrand's disease ifsuch persons can be found. failureto obtain 'new synthesis' in a homozygote wouldthrow great doubt on a model whichimplies that the reduced ahf levels in vonwillebrand's disease heterozygotes isdue entirely to reduction in an effector substancewhich neutralizes the repressorof an x-chromosome operon directly codingthe ahf molecule.EOF